1. Yorum: Update: Now in video form
There is a house on a hill, and there are people in it. And they're nice, but not really. There is a garden, and there they get a lot of sunlight. And it is nice, and they get to sleep there sometimes.
There is a house underground, and there are people in it. And they're the first to tell you that they're not very nice: they're con-men, grifters, forgers and imposters. They sit among stink bugs, and they've been there for so long that maybe they've convinced themselves that they just belong there.
There is a rock, and it is a gift, but it is also a burden. And maybe it's a metaphor, but it's also just a rock: solid and heavy, difficult to lug around, and dangerous in the wrong hands. Some people will tell you that it's supposed to bring wealth. But again, it's also just a rock.
There is a line, and it cannot be crossed.
There is a smell, and it comes from the underground. And the people who live in the house on the hill can smell it. And the people who live underground try to imagine a life in the sun, a future where they aren't just garbage to be washed away in the rain. But there is a smell that sticks to them, and they know that they can never really belong.
There is a world, and it is nice, but not really. There are houses on hills, and houses underground. There is plenty of sun, but it isn't for everybody. There are people grateful to be slaves, and people unhappy to be served. There are systems that we are born into, and they create these lines that cannot be crossed. And we all dream of something better, but we've been living with these lines for so long that we've convinced ourselves that there really isn't anything to be done.
There is a knife. And it doesn't do much in the long run, but there will always be some satisfaction in crossing some lines.
2. Yorum: call me by your name’s cum peach walked so parasite’s killer peach could run
3. Yorum: Another Bong hit.
4. Yorum: Our expectations were high but HOLY FUCK
5. Yorum: a question to people who rate this 4.5: what more do you want literally what more do you want
6. Yorum: One detail I noticed this time around is that Min and Mr. Park both react the same way to being asked if they like or love the people that they're romantically involved with– by laughing. And in Mr. Park's case, giving a sarcastic answer that undercuts his saying 'yes'. Min and Mr. Park are both seen as powerful figures deserving of respect, and the way they dismissively respond to an earnest question about whether they truly care for the people they're supposed to tells us a lot about how powerful people think about not just the people below them, but everyone in their lives.
"I just feel comfortable here. It feels like I was born here. Maybe I had my wedding here, too. In my old age, love will comfort me."
7. Yorum: The tent won’t leak. It’s from America.
8. Yorum: The bloody napkin scene....top 3 scenes of all time. Hands down.
9. Yorum: morse code me by your name and i'll morse code you by mine
10. Yorum: maybe the real parasite... was the friends we made along the way
11. Yorum: crazy rich asians walked, so that they could get stabbed in parasite
12. Yorum: A garden party.
A basement.
A stone.
A cake.
A knife.
A seizure.
A car-key.
A sausage skewer.
A smell.
A murder.
The most thrilling scene in years.
13. Yorum: 
14. Yorum: Jessica, only child ✌️ from Illinois Chicago, classmate of Kim Jin-mo, he’s your cousin✌️ 🎼 
Easily, without a doubt, the best hook of 2019
15. Yorum: Watched with a live orchestra and an introduction by Bong. It was one of my favorite experiences at a theatre, obviously.
16. Yorum: parasite is my minimalist architecture porn like yes unplastered grey stone walls mahogany floor and impractical enormous glass panels inject that in me
17. Yorum: "No one can imitate North Korean news anchors like you" gotta be the rarest compliment ever
18. Yorum: I'M SCREAMING I'M CRYING THIS IS THE BEST SHIT THAT HAS EVER HAPPENED THE FILM THAT TRULY MADE ME A CINEPHILE IS THE FIRST FOREIGN FILM TO EVER WIN BEST PICTURE WE WON bong can now finally go and drink his guts out, bless his heart
19. Yorum: “lemons into lemonade”
anyways, when you guys are eating the rich, which condiment are you choosing? i’m a ketchup girl myself
20. Yorum: Something I’ve wondered since the first viewing: toward the end when Ki-Woo mentions “the doctor who looked nothing like a doctor” and “the lawyer who looked nothing like a lawyer,” is this meant to subtly hint that everyone in this universe is faking it, not just the Kims?
21. Yorum: I hadn't seen a trailer and had no idea what the premise of it even was and BOY OH BOY did I have a wonderful couple of hours. Pure movie joy.
22. Yorum: kim ki-taek the original self isolator
23. Yorum: Woh, that kid is going to need a much bigger trauma recovery cake.
24. Yorum: I've come to make an announcement:
The Academy is a bitch ass motherfucker. They pissed on Song Kang-Ho's chances of getting a Supporting Actor nod. That's right, this bunch of quilly dicks pissed all over a truly nuanced and powerful performance and they said Brad Pitt's dick was "this big" and I said "that's disgusting".
So I'm making a callout post on my letterboxd dot com: Academy, you got a small dick, its the size of this peach except way smaller. And guess what? Here's what my dong looks like. That's right baby, all point, no cake, no meat skewers, look at that it looks like two balls and a Bong Joon-Ho.
They fucked my dude's Oscar chances so guess what? I'm gonna fuck the Kim's basement house. That's right this is what you get, MY SUPER RAINSTORM PISS. Except I'm not pissing on the Kim's home, I'm gonna go higher, I'M PISSING ON THE PARK'S MANSION. HOW DO YOU LIKE THAT TODD PHILLIPS, I PISSED ON THE MANSION YOU IDIOT!
You have twenty-three hours before the piss drop-el-ets hit the fucking Oscars, now get out of my fucking sight, before I piss on you too
25. Yorum: not to sound dramatic but that flood scene changed me
26. Yorum: 
27. Yorum: Unintentionally decided now, in the middle of my Ansel binge, was a good time to rewatch this. Not realizing I also decided to rewatch Parasite in the middle of my Noah Centineo marathon. Just putting that out there as a way of thanking Bong for getting me through these tough times.
28. Yorum: “Dad, today I made a plan.”
It’s absolutely fucking absurd that Song Kang-Ho did not get any Oscar attention for his role in this film. He gives the most expressive, wide-ranging performance of the year. I mean, the entire ensemble is outstanding (I think I’ve already said how terrific Cho Yeo-jeong’s comedic performance is) but Song is the emotional center of this film both in its funniest and it’s most tragic moments. Also, after five viewings (I know) of this film, it’s so fun to me which line deliveries (in a language I fully do not know) stick out to me so much. Kim Ki-taek screaming “Lady! Are you mad?!” is a strong favorite.
I retain a dumb optimism that the Academy will wise up and give this film Best Picture, but even if they don’t, I have no doubt that it simply is the year’s best picture. Every single time I watch this film, I feel my heart breaking at the ending as if it’s the first time.
29. Yorum: Holy fucking shit. I can’t tell if this movie is a masterpiece or if Bong Joon-ho himself is the masterpiece.
The poster for this film quotes David Ehrlich’s Indiewire review that says this solidifies his movies as a genre of their own, and he’s totally right. I couldn’t possibly place this into a solid genre, but every little genre it does dip into, it knocks out of the park. I loved it. I can’t stop thinking about it. I went into it knowing absolutely nothing and having seen absolutely nothing besides a passing glimpse at the poster and knowing Bong made it, and that was ideal. It’s one of those movies where leaving the theater gets me insanely excited just to read what other people say about it. 
To quote one of the lead characters, this shit is so metaphorical.

EDIT: you know what, shout the fuck out to Song Kang-ho too, who’s giving a stellar performance here and– I just realized– in countless other great Korean films!!
30. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho, the sui generis South Korean auteur behind unclassifiable modern wonders like “Barking Dogs Never Bite” and “The Host,” has always made films that refuse to fit the narrow parameters of any particular genre. Each of them is built atop a bedrock of comic violence that Bong uses to support the weight of the heavy stories he places on top of it, but simply categorizing “Snowpiercer” as science-fiction or “Memories of Murder” as a mystery would require you to ignore the rare magic that holds them together, and deny the controlled instability that allows them to keep changing shape before your eyes.
The director refers to his furious and fiendishly well-crafted new film as a “family tragicomedy,” but the best thing about “Parasite” is that it gives us permission to stop trying to sort his movies into any sort of pre-existing taxonomy — with “Parasite,” Bong finally becomes a genre unto himself. Ditching the sci-fi elements that have defined his recent work in favor of a more grounded (but no less eccentric) story of life under the pall of late capitalism, Bong’s latest offers another compassionate parable about how society can only be as strong as its most vulnerable people.
READ THE FULL REVIEW ON INDIEWIRE
31. Yorum: despite what mr. park might think, this movie smells so fucking good
32. Yorum: They’re rich but still nice
They’re nice because they’re rich 
The epitome of perfection.
33. Yorum: I saw someone on Twitter doing that annoying thing where they sneer at the idea that a movie that people love really could be as good as they say and then asking for more opinions, hoping to find just one person who says something like "it was fine" and then latch onto that one take as the definitive proof that there's some sort of conspiracy (?) to declare a film as great when it's actually "just fine." It's a very stupid trend that seems like a thinly-veiled way to get ahead of the curve and preemptively shit on a popular movie and cast all of that movie's fans as rabid sheep who can't think for themselves, in order to present as someone having a hot take that makes you seem smarter and more with it than all those "idiots" who enjoyed the movie– but it alllllllways comes across as corny and embarrassingly contrarian.
The closest thing I can find to a kernel of worth in doing that, is the conceit that if you do go into a movie thinking it's not "as good as everyone says," there's a great chance that you'll truly be stunned and let yourself be overwhelmed into an experience far above what you were expecting. Sometimes it feels like there's a psychology to film, where your brain is constantly trying to fight against the preconceived notions it has about a piece of art, like a strange defense mechanism. If everyone's saying it's good, you'll have to overcorrect for that expectation and end up letting yourself down. If it's said to be bad, you're setting yourself at a low bar to be extremely impressed when they do three flips over the thing from a standing position (which is impressive, even without a bar to cross!) And maybe that's what this person was concerned with in this movie.
People are calling this the movie of the year, a masterpiece, talking about how rich the themes and comedy are, how terrific the performances are, how great a director Bong Joon-ho is– but if you're going into the theater with that all in mind, aren't you erasing the very chance of surprise and wonder from your experience? I'd like to think that's not entirely the case, as this was the second time I'd seen it– long after the volunteer army for Bong Joon-ho & Sang Kang-ho's Oscars was formed (of which I am a proud cadet)– and the audience still seemed absolutely enthralled and rapt with the movie they were watching. And so was I! But I don't want to give the sneering contrarian crowd, or the cautious contrarian brain, any ammo by teeing it up in any special way.
All of that said, Parasite fuckin' sucks. Enjoy! ☺️
34. Yorum: leaving the arclight I heard a girl say “holy shit. can’t wait to read the letterboxd reviews on this,” and I think she’s right.
35. Yorum: if this doesn’t win the palme d’or i’m burning the palais to the ground

ETA WE FUCKIN DID IT BONG WON THE PALME
36. Yorum: I'm not the biggest fan of reading long essays on Letterboxd, and this is definitely one of those - so if you'd like to read it on Medium with some photos and headers, check it out here: link.medium.com/QdG86fMem1
“This is so metaphorical!”
This. This right here. Wow. I don’t wanna speak too soon, but Parasite might be among the best films of the decade. It’s the rare mix of accessible mainstream storytelling that anyone can enjoy, accompanied by plenty of subtle and layered filmmaking for fans to dissect in years to come. It might be The Movie We Need Right Now™, but it’s also the movie we’ve always needed and the movie we can all engage with.
Parasite exemplifies how sometimes the best way to get Westerners to wake up to the problems in their own culture is to paint the big picture through the lens of a foreign one. If this film had been made by Americans, with the rich family as Beverly Hills divas and the poor family as illegal immigrants or another tired cliché, we’d probably be calling the whole thing on-the-nose and heavy-handed; and unproductively, the high-class people indicted by it would be as up-in-arms as a boomer watching the end of Blackkklansman.
But that’s what seeing a story through the eyes of another culture does: it illuminates the universal human problem at the core while eradicating the touchy political specifics, stereotypes and labels of our own. It allows the viewer to listen without knee-jerking to their preconceived beliefs. Parasite is as much a film about class struggles in Seoul, South Korea as it is about the universal class struggles around the world.
Throughout the film, Bong Joon-Ho masterfully shapes an ever-changing tone, depicting a societal breaking point through a cloudy and disenchanted lens…but he never feels motivated solely by anger or cynicism alone. The real motivator in Parasite, despite the film’s bleak outcome, is one of empathy.
...
“Oh, so you have a plan?” family patriarch Kim Ki-Taek asks his son Ki-Woo optimistically near the beginning of the film. This question is repeated many times throughout the rest of the tale. “Hey. Our phones are dead. The WiFi is shutoff. What’s your plan?” Kim’s wife Chung-Sook asks him expectantly. “Don’t you have a plan?!” a shocked Ki-Taek asks the wiry Geun-sae, who has accepted his place below the ground and stopped trying to climb the social staircase. “Don’t worry, I have a plan,” Ki-Taek assures his son after things go awry and their entire semi-basement home is flooded. Ki-Woo makes a similar assurance at the very end, planning and promising to work his way up in the world and make enough money to free his father from abject poverty.
If you’re poor, the world always expects you to have a “plan” to get un-poor. That’s the American dream, isn’t it? That’s why capitalism is the solution to all our problems. Because even if you’re slumming it in the lowest of the low, if you pour enough hard work and vigor into pulling yourself up, you’ll eventually find success and reach the top. You’ll be home, where you belong, watching rain falling on the lawn and drinking yourself silly.
Pretty weird, though, how in order to eventually become part of the high-class, you’ll have to spend most of your days serving the high-class without any hint of eventual payoff. They might start to treat you kindly. They might share some of their food with you. They might even invite you to a few birthday parties. But in the end, you’ll always be a commodity, working for salvation at the expense of your own life. In the end, they’ll still complain about your smell behind your back, or make up an excuse to fire you because the truth is too embarrassing. And in the end, like Ki-Jung, you’ll realize you were eating dog treats like a house pet all along.
Remember: you can work hard and be personable, but Mr. Park just can’t tolerate it if you “cross the line.” Mr. Park is a video-game designer. He understands the woes of the working man.
Parasite is about a vicious cycle. The characters don’t succeed. Though we might like it to be, this is not a successful guide to eating the rich and ruling the world in their place. That’s not the moral of the story.
For one thing, the rich we’re “eating” are actually pretty decent people. The Park family is far from overtly evil or sinister, which speaks to Bong Joon-Ho’s aversion to caricatures and extremes. Indeed, the Parks are perfectly nice, and their cardinal sin is one of obliviousness and blissful naivety. But then, as Chung-Sook remarks, maybe they are only “nice because they are rich.” Their cushion of privilege emboldens them with the luxury of niceness.
For the Parks, everything that occurs will always occur in their favor. It’s not that they automatically gain whenever the poor lose. It’s just that whenever something truly negative happens, their wealth turns lemons into lemonade and transforms it into a minor inconvenience — or even a straight-up blessing. The rainstorm that flooded the Kims’ entire neighborhood with neck-deep sewage water? Sure, it meant the Parks had to pack up their tent and outdoor projector and come home. But, as Mrs. Park notes, it also cleared up the pollution for an impromptu Sunday-afternoon garden party!
Young son Da-Song sleeps soundly through the storm in a child’s play tent ordered from the US. Meanwhile, the Kims’ home is irreparably destroyed and they’re left sleeping on the floor of a gym. This is why the members of the high-class, in all their safety and privilege, find it so hard to care about the effects of climate change. Whatever happens to the rest of the world will affect their lives very little. And as we all know, the poor people who live on the coastlines will all just sell their homes and move to a nicer place. That will totally happen.
In another stroke of luxury, the Parks can also afford to embrace and pursue their personal giftings, and receive help for their shortcomings to remove all possibility of failure. Older daughter Da-Hye might not be good at English, but she can get a tutor to help her. Da-Song, a fanboy at heart, has parents who will endorse and encourage all of his interests, from art projects to Native-American dress-up. Indeed, he’s immune to the outside world enough to appropriate the culture of an oppressed people for his own fun and games.
Da-Song’s mundanely juvenile artistic skills are over-rewarded and overanalyzed, while someone like Ki-Jung could never hope to get into an art school even with her knowledge of Photoshop. The expressive, unrepressed and emotionally impulsive nature every person buries deep down is allowed to run wild in Da-Song because of his young age and his family’s affluence.
Kim family patriarch Ki-Taek has had some of the same animalistic aggression bubbling up inside him for years due to his own destitution, but to set it free or act on it would only harm his prospects even further. Better to put on a happy face and just do what the rich man asks, right? He’s paying generously, after all.
...

The film’s penultimate scene features Ki-Taek wearing a Native American headdress for Da-Song’s party. Mr. Park is wearing one too. But while Park looks almost stylish, comfortable, content in his privilege to be appropriating the imagery of an oppressed culture millions of miles away, Kim looks a little pathetic. In a certain sense, he is the Native American. Minutes later, Ki-Taek will be the one to turn and kill Mr. Park with a kitchen knife. The smell never bothered him, anyway.
Parasite feels like it accepts violence as an inevitability - a result of the boiling water overflowing and attempting to upend the status quo - but it also reinforces the idea that violence is ultimately futile, and may further cement the divide. 
Violently taking down the rich may lead to short-term catharsis, but it’s a vicious cycle that will place you right back where you started. For all his attempts to work his way up, everything Ki-Taek does ultimately lands him back in the bunker, worshipping his high-class overlord for lack of anything else to do, just like the now-deceased Geun-Se. One wonders how many of Geun-Se’s other, more violent actions Ki-Taek might be doomed to repeat given enough time.
We side with the Kims for most of the movie…until we don’t. As they achieve early success and start to get a glimpse at the prosperity waiting for them on the other side, the family becomes more and more hardened and downright cruel. At first it’s all part of the comedic tone, but then it’s not. Ki-Woo is emboldened to chase a loiterer away from the family’s front window — and his first choice of weapon is a massive rock. Ki-Jung drunkenly complains that the family should only be worrying about themselves. Chung-Sook pretends to care for the Parks’ dogs and then angrily shoves them away when they’re not around. Ki-Taek seems the most reserved, until something finally breaks inside him and he becomes the most extreme of all.
Ascending the social staircase (which feels like the best thing to call it, given the imagery) isn’t a peaceful experience among the poor. The attempts the Kims make to achieve prosperity ultimately drive them toward the notion that they must leave everyone of the "low-class" behind to save themselves. It's a notion that was heavily dissected in Jordan Peele's Us earlier this year. Later in the film, the Kims even violently clash with another low-class family to elevate their own status. Fired housekeeper Moon-Gwang begs Chung-Sook for her help as a “fellow member of the needy” - to which Chung-Sook replies “I’m not needy.” Later, she haphazardly kills Moon-Gwang as she attempts to maintain appearances with the Parks. There is no peaceful transition to the upper level. You must be as oppressive as your oppressor. Care about no one else.
And yet, even at their worst, it rarely feels like the Kims’ actions are the result of petty selfishness or coldhearted greed. Whether we can endorse them or not, they are always the result of a system that (seemingly) left no alternative path to follow. Ya know, it’s kinda like the scene in that dancing clown movie where he kills the late-night host, except with a whole lot more depth and moral ambiguity and conflict.

…
I only noticed it on the second viewing, but the film opens and closes on the same shot. Socks are drying on a rack hanging in the semi-basement by the window. The camera pans down to a hopeful Ki-Woo sitting on his bed. In the opening shot, Ki-Woo is searching his phone for a nearby WiFi signal he can mooch from - the first of many attempts to scrounge the table scraps of the wealthy and carry on with his “plan.” In the closing shot, as the camera pans past the snow falling outside, Ki-Woo is back in the same spot, this time writing a wistful letter to his father and promising that this time, the plan will work. How will he even manage to deliver the letter? Will his promises ever be fulfilled? We don’t know. But despite the dramatic and violent attempts to climb the social staircase we’ve witnessed in the past 2 hours, the boy is back at square-one…with only his mistaken ambition (and two less family members) left to comfort him.
This is around the time when I’d usually write a closing paragraph about the “message” of the movie; I’d love to talk about the practical takeaway of the story and what we can do to fix the problems it presents. But if the film shows anything, it might be that the ways we usually approach “solving” poverty and “fixing” the class struggle often just reinforce how things have been since the beginning.
Bong Joon-Ho has mentioned in several interviews that the Parks’ obliviousness to the problems of the have-nots comes mainly from their cushion of economic protection; they’re so sheltered that they are rarely even made aware of the world below their line. Not only have they rarely experienced true pain, but they've rarely had reason to even observe it elsewhere, either. As such, the Parks would rather stay out of that world altogether than face the experience of riding a dirty subway. I think many of us, including those who belong to the middle-class, probably have a level of self-inflicted ignorance toward the margins, too. When you start to feel empathy for the have-nots, it often demands action, and that's scary. But if Parasite does anything in the lives of the middle and high-class people who see it, I hope it shines a light on those margins, creating empathy and demanding action. Maybe, after watching a film that brings to light the least of these, we can start to meditate on our own privilege and how we can be more compassionate. Maybe we can pop our own bubbles and be more aware of how our blessings can be the curses of others. And maybe someday, if or when the whole system comes crashing down, we can rebuild it with new understanding.

...

All this, and we never even talked about the filmmaking! Gratefully, everything here feels elegant and masterful without ever being showy. There are some long oners here, but they never call attention to themselves. There are some great visual motifs here, but they rarely spoonfeed their meaning. There is some great acting here, but it never feels like “”acting”” meant for a showreel at the Oscars. The musical choices are potent, often ironic, and unique. The imagery is strong and crystal clear in its intentions, but the characters always feel real and never on-the-nose. The production design (and overall geography of the key setpiece) is constructed beautifully to allow for the maximum amount of Hitchcockian thrills. And with all those elements stirred together like a nice warm dish of Ram-Don - "what the hell is ram-don?" - Bong Joon-Ho has created his masterpiece.
37. Yorum: yup....... this is the best movie that has ever been fucking made
38. Yorum: You are not ready for this film. I shit you not. Parasite is a tour de force. The hype is true. It is really a masterpiece in its own right.
39. Yorum: 
40. Yorum: jessica, only child,
from illinois, chicago.
i'm a classmate of your cousin
41. Yorum: Masterfully constructed and thoroughly compelling genre piece (effortlessly transitioning between familial drama, heist movie, satirical farce, subterranean horror) about the perverse and mutating symbiotic relationship of increasingly unequal, transactional class relationships, and who can and can't afford to be oblivious about the severe, violent material/psychic toll of capitalist accumulation. ("They say a ghost in the house brings wealth.") I think I ultimately admired this more than I felt it, it's clever and manufactured in a way that feels shiny and surface-level more than personal but I think it works in a movie in part about how those shiny surfaces distract us from the horrifying conditions that exist in order to sustain them. The seams of this system are ripping and it feels like Bong has channeled those economic precarities, indignities and anxieties into his own Rube Goldberg microcosm that asks how anyone could be surprised by a violent destination.
42. Yorum: when your circle small but y'all crazy
43. Yorum: i be in the club requesting jessica only child illinois chicago classmate of kim jin-mo he’s your cousin ding dong
44. Yorum: What the fuck did you think I would give this?
45. Yorum: Would’ve been even better if I could read
46. Yorum: My hands shake as I type these words but people didn't lie when they said this is one of the year's best movies. To me, 2019 is over and Parasite has freakin’ ended it all. You know that feeling when the movie is so good that when it ends, you feel as though a large part of your self has also departed from your body and eventually left behind a void inside you? That's exactly how I felt after watching Parasite. I will be picking this out of my teeth for weeks, maybe months, or even years to come. If you think you know what's coming or what Bong Joon-ho has in store for you? Maybe think again. Probably my favorite “ghost” story out there. Best to watch with your whole family#BongHive
"Do you smell that?"
47. Yorum: BEST MOTHERFUCKING PICTURE
48. Yorum: It's frustrating to watch movies by Bong Joon-ho. He comes close sometimes, but he never quite nails it when it comes to class consciousness.
This film captures conflict between the working class and the bourgeoisie, but the essence of the relationship between the two is never made explicit, never truly captured. Instead of focusing on the basic economic exploitation that is universally true in every capitalist society, the film focuses on the treatment and perception of workers by the rich. There are moments that come so close to getting it right, but they fail to go the next step and make it clear.
You might think that "close" should be applauded considering how many films don't even manage that, and there's some value to that. But the line it fails to cross is one of the most important political distinctions there is, and failing to cross is the difference between reform and revolution, between principled and liberal, between fighting back and just fucking whining.
The key missing piece is understanding surplus value. Without understanding that the core exploitation to capitalism, to the relationship between worker and boss, is that the worker produces the wealth (directly or indirectly) and the boss takes it while doing nothing (or in the case of the petty bourgeois, not enough to justify this theft). Because of this act of cruel exploitation, we workers are left with breadcrumbs (see the family in the basement) and the bosses live in luxury. Were we workers able to control the company and the money created by our labor, that money could and would be used for the betterment of our lives through public services (healthcare, education, etc.) and communal property.
There are hints of that here, especially with our friend in the basement worshiping Mr. Park for providing for him (without even knowing he exists), but it's not explicit. The metaphor is only clear to those who are already class conscious. The conning of the Park family is shown with a cold remove; the film finds almost no sympathy for anyone. Without that, it feels as if the filmmaker is implying a level playing field. (This in and of itself is better than trying to make us sympathize with the rich exploiter class, BUT.) But the playing field is not level. Acts of theft against the rich are not unjustified; they are not exploitation. They are a just response to the trillions they have stolen from the working class. The biggest flaw in the plan of the Kim family is that it was strategically unsound.
The point is, the film fails to capture the essence of injustice at the heart of capitalism. This failure leaves the film's themes squarely in the realm of liberal moralism; the justification for killing Mr. Park is derived from his attitude toward Mr. Kim. While the bourgeoisie's attitude toward the working class is repugnant, often callous, usually demeaning, and worthy of a response rooted in righteous anger, when you try to insert ethics into class warfare, you inevitably turn it into a subjective, individualist quagmire. Mr. Kim was justified in killing Mr. Park because Mr. Park is a parasite whose role is to subjugate and exploit the working class. He is our enemy because his role is to harm us. Mr. Kim's failure is killing Mr. Park in a context and a manner that did not further the class struggle, not in committing murder.
Killing a member of the bourgeoisie is an act of self-defense for the working class. The film doesn't even come close, really, to capturing that truth.
What we get, then, is two families the film could arguably be viewing as parasites. It doesn't matter which you think it is, nor which the filmmaker thinks it is. All that matters is that this failure to be clear and objective does not serve the working class; it merely confuses things and makes viewers feel special for liking a prestige film with some edgy leanings.
It's no surprise, then, that the film then fails on so many other levels when it comes to a political statement. The unnecessary and disturbing pedophilia subplot (which is never addressed nor commented on in any meaningful way) serves no purpose but to make the working class protagonist unlikable (thus eradicating the film's chances of ever being class conscious) and characterize a child in a sexual way. The commentary on North Korea could be argued to be unreliable, given that it comes out of the mouths of characters who are quintessential bootlickers, but since the U.S. media has almost completely drowned out alternative views on the DPRK, that unreliability is lost on most viewers. Instead, it just seems like a gross moment of chauvinism at best and chauvinistic humor at worst. The fucked up use of native peoples' cultural aesthetics (or the stereotypical portrayals thereof) is bizarre, racist, and uncommented upon by the film. Yes, it's the cruel, exploitative rich ruling class playing pretend, but the behavior is never called out within the context of the film. And in the end, two of the female characters are dead so we can watch the men angst about it--and then we don't get even that much. They become props in the drama of men, as usual.
So. The film has moments of stunning cinematography. The barrier between rich and poor lit in orange, infernal light. The good luck charm stone at the bottom of a stairwell, a shot carefully constructed in near monochrome. Moments of composition that manage to create suspense or humor. It's effective at visual spectacle. But to what end? A misanthropic diatribe that only distracts from the truth. What a contemptible mess.
49. Yorum: “i don’t trust anyone now”
so original on every level and turns sinister so slowly that it was still shocking a second time. one of the best of the year, but you probably already knew that
50. Yorum: Best of the Decade. 
I’ve never been more sure of anything.
51. Yorum: Perhaps the most nuanced and merciless look at economic inequity and wealth corruption ever presented on film. Without question, Parasite is an uncompromising masterpiece that deserves every ounce of praise it receives.
52. Yorum: 
53. Yorum: Parasite exhibits total technical and conceptual mastery of Bong’s favorite themes while simultaneously taking his oeuvre to new places. He seamlessly weaves together melodrama, satire, comedy and horror elements while ultimately centering deeply lovable and flawed characters. Anyone living in a capitalist democracy will find a lot to chew on here…
54. Yorum: 57
Bong Joon-ho's long con. Parasite is representative of both his style and his limitations. What a stellar first act, which moves vertically between semi-basement homes and high-class spaces, tracking the financial gain and life-changing upward trajectory of one family and, most damning, the rich stasis of the other. Never has the visual repetition of a rich businessman trudging home after a loooooong day at work (so sad) been so vicious. Bong's framing allows for the class divide to showcase itself naturally, as with the cutaway to Yeon-kyo watching Ki-woo tutor Ki-jung: the rich observing if the service satisfies her metric, which isn't about whether she's learning, but the pursuit of power and utilizing it productively. Checking her pulse rather than her answers. While the Kim family can't seem to do anything wrong, Bong reveals an effortless yet *constant* performative interplay between what they do to maintain survival and the non-effort of the Park family.
This riveting surface-level dynamic *about* surfaces, and who can afford to openly display their desires and privilege, their hatred and distance, collapses when Bong decides to reveal a subterranean layer to the scenario. While a shocking narrative development, and one which springboards the film towards its tense, queasy third-act, full of sharp formal tricks and detours into physical comedy and horror, Bong loses his way in the exploration of what the Park family isn't aware of. Parasite ultimately slips his hand against the edge he's been sharpening, and it concludes as a film that tortures its low-class protagonists while not utilizing that collateral damage as fuel to accurately explore the scum of the rich.
For instance: the entrance lights. 'The Park family assuming a motion-sensor feature and yet it's all under the control of a poor man living unknowingly in their secret nuclear bunker' is a doozy of a indictment, but it doesn't go far enough. Bong not confronting the fact that the uber-rich are very much aware of their treatment and knowledge of exploiting workers and labor for an effortless lifestyle is a key component that weakens his anger. Sure, the trite cliches of 'poor people smell bad' are there, as is the "we're paying you overtime, so think of it as part of your work" zinger that thrusts the vengeance of the climax into gear, but none of that combats Bong's disregard for the insidious agency of the Park family. There's no rhyme or reason to building up the 'all-or-nothing' desperation of the Kim family only to not indict the family they're working for. "Every house has a bunker like this." - well, duh! Thank you for the reminder. Going back to the broader picture of systemic class divides after setting the dominoes for a critical exposure of their culpability is just plain toothless! Jordan Peele's Us has less slack for the upper-class than this movie!
Anyways, in spite of all that, Parasite still won me over. It moves so well, and skirts a fine line between being ludicrous and outlandish without teetering into either corner. The camping scene is one such example, with the class barriers designed and set into motion with the utmost intent. What I wish Bong Joon-Ho would go back to, as in the case of Mother and Memories of Murder, is to acutely damn the object under the microscope, rather than simply letting us know it exists. There's no reason not to send them down to the basement. They know they're there.
55. Yorum: so everyone is giving this a 5 because they've never seen a movie that depicts class conflict before this, right?
i hope that's true.
it's really fun and exhilarating in a roller-coaster kinda way, but outside of that it's pretty damn shallow. every character is basically a farcical cartoon and the whole thing reads like a slight-of-hand trick upon the audience that doesn't particularly hold up upon consideration, like a thrilling page-turner of a novel that has quickly falls apart after you get to the ending. i dig the really authentic depiction of uber-poor living and guile in the first half but when you get into the twist portion with its violence, the story starts circling around itself and we're left not quite sure what exactly this film is trying to say about class or capitalism.
is the idea that the social performativity of wealth can masque actual dreadful poverty because everyone in the working class is forced to attune themselves to the arbitrary tastes and desires of the bourgeoisie? okay, then why not focus entirely on that and ditch the empty thriller elements in the second half? is the idea that the inner life of poor people is made not just economically deficient, but also morally deficient? not really because the film sure has a lot of fun watching the kim family fuck over these naive rich losers and it wants you to have fun as well. okay, so maybe not those ideas, but what about if this just wants the audience to have an exhilarating time watching a well-crafted thriller? yeah, sure, i had fun, but a lot of people are acting like this is some searing attack upon the rich when really it has nothing to say about rich people, the rich family here are just dumb inert plot devices with no subjectivity, this film has pity for the poor, sure, but it doesn't particularly have hatred for the rich, it has this kind of artless robin hood notion that the poor will always remain poor and that capitalism inflicts this kind of permanent ontological wound onto people that leaves them shallow husks who can only exert their egos by temporarily displacing the reality of others and then getting punched back down to their internalized class identity, with nothing learned in the process at all. it's this kind of empty sympathy that keeps me from adoring this, as stunning as it may be presented
56. Yorum: “i just feel comfortable here. it feels like i was born here”
i can’t stop watching this. bonghive let’s GO!
57. Yorum: Uuund da hätten wir vermutlich das cineastische Schlusswort 2019: „Parasite“ ist eine wahre Freude. Inszenatorisch so meisterhaft konzipiert, strukturiert und gefilmt, dass man sich die Finger lecken möchte, gespickt mit ein paar der schönsten Bildkompositionen, die man dieses Jahr im Kino finden wird, spielt Bong-Joon Ho mit den Genres, als wäre es ein Kinderspiel. „Parasite“ ist packend, perfide, bisweilen absurd komisch, sensibel und bitterböse, erstaunlicherweise sogar oftmals alles gleichzeitig. Und während man noch fasziniert staunt, wie sich all diese Fäden mühelos miteinander verweben, entfaltet sich mit jeder verstreichenden Minute eine brillante Reise in den Abgrund. Bong-Joon Ho beginnt sein Meisterwerk so unschuldig wie irgend möglich, stößt seine Figuren ab der Filmmitte in einen Strudel, aus der keine von ihnen unversehrt hervorgehen wird. Wie oft da pures Erstarren und Lachen beieinander liegen, bleibt bis zum Ende ein kleines Wunder. Angereichert mit bissiger Kritik am koreanischen Sozialgefüge, getragen von exzellenten Darstellern und gesegnet mit dem unvergleichlichen Selbstverständnis, das nur die großen Meisterregisseure auf ihre Werke projizieren. Vielleicht minimal zu lang, ansonsten aber sehr viel Liebe hierfür!
58. Yorum: yes, i am still thinking about the Parasite pizza delivery girl..
59. Yorum: and now i must live with knowing i was at cannes and could have attended the 2nd ever screening of best picture winner parasite but simply overslept
60. Yorum: Yeah I respect capitalism’s rights... capitalism’s rights to shut the fuck up
61. Yorum: watching this always makes me feel less guilty i used to steal starbucks gift cards as a child
62. Yorum: "She may look like a sheep, but inside, she's a fox."
63. Yorum: Masterfully made.
Funny and horrifying.
They nailed the Katrina scenes.
Watching your sneakers getting filled with water on the stairs.
Crying using a floating box or table to move out.
Help people less fortunate than you.
Love this movie more and more every day.
64. Yorum: 57
Second viewing, no change. One of those movies where I stand back and admire it as a whole, and I recognize its influence, crossover appeal, and commercial success, but I nonetheless am left cold, even distant from its construction. Not inclined to make an extensive argument (my original review still stands), but if I did, I would begin by saying that its propulsive genre inclinations often clash against its loftier social ideas, and the smooth mechanics of the narrative make it feel weightless, and often too slick for its own good. Then again, it's so well-made, and so intuitive in its thrills and twists that it's almost annoying how it doesn't click with me. Still has one of the scariest shots in recent memory, that being a ghost which really isn't a ghost at all, and yet Bong Joon-Ho allows the audience to experience that upper-class perspective, if only for us to resent it that much more by the end.
65. Yorum: 
66. Yorum: So, nach dem ich jetzt ein paar Tage drüber geschlafen habe, kann ich mit Fug und Recht behaupten, dass das einer der besten Filme ist, die ich seit langer langer Zeit gesehen habe.
Dieser Film ist meiner Meinung nach nahezu Perfekt und gleichzeitig fällt es mir nicht leicht zu beschreiben, warum das eigentlich so ist. Am ehesten würde ich sagen, es ist der einzigartige "Flow".
Ein Film wie ein Tanz, man weiß nicht genau warum man da gerade so reingezogen wird, aber man spürt ihn und fühlt ihn und hat das Gefühl er spricht mit einem persönlich. Ich weiss es doch auch nicht.
Ich hab das jedenfalls sehr selten, dass mich ein Film einfach auf allen Ebenen komplett anspricht. Natürlich ist er wunderschön. Ich könnte alleine eine Seite darüber schreiben, wie perfekt ausgeleuchtet der Film ist, wie stylisch er ist, seine Bildkompositionen usw usf. Aber lasst euch einfach gesagt sein, er sieht so gut aus, dass man fast jede Szene gerne als Poster Zuhause hängen hätte.
Die Schauspieler sind allesamt perfekt, als wäre der Film für jeden einzelnen bewusst gemacht. Die Geschichte, so simpel wie genial.
Der Humor, die Spannung, die Meta-Ebene, die Zweideutigkeit, die Emotionen...
Schaut euch keine Trailer an. Lest keine Spoilerinos. Geht einfach in den Film und genießt 2 Stunden nahezu perfekter Kinounterhaltung.
67. Yorum: 1001 movies you must see before you die (Ranked)
Oscar Winners (Ranked) (2020)
(Best Picture)
(Best Director)
(Best International Feature)
(Best Original Screenplay)
I was so late to getting round to watching this film but luckily avoided spoilers and absolutely adored it, but haven’t seen it in just over a year so hopefully it’s as good as I remember. 
And it really was if not even better on rewatch. 
I think basically everything you can even say about this film has been said already considering it’s been analysed so much but if like me you constantly put off films like this you really should give it a chance.
68. Yorum: best picture showcase: film #7
“it keeps clinging to me”
still absolute FIRE. if this doesn’t win best picture there’s no hope left for hollywood
69. Yorum: edit: removed ratings, was posted at 2 1/2 stars
You see the rating, of course, and that will either immediately anger/annoy/outrage/bother/depress you (whichever/whatever adjective is apt), or intrigue you. I want to preface this review with a brief message.
Read it if you want. I don’t care. Criticism is valuable. Opinions are meaningless. I write opinions because I have nothing to do. I attach emotion to opinions because I have nothing else equally as fulfilling in my life at this moment. So, let’s all just calm down a bit. I'm taking a second to not over excite myself, why don’t you do the same? Ok? Ok!
While violence should feel natural in a film boiling with financial anxiety, all violence in Parasite is undeserved; it hinges entirely upon surprise. Therein lies my greatest criticism/issue with the film. I had heard from so many that you must “go in cold” to see Parasite. To not read ANYTHING about it, just watch it. What does this say of a films quality, that you cannot know what happens for it to be enjoyable? What of joy in the journey? How can a film such as that, hold up on multiple viewings, less so multiple years from now?
Parasite is not an atrocious film. It is not the landscape changing film some proclaim it is.. A gorgeous and hollow film. Mainly, I find it atrocious how the public reveres such mediocrity with excellence. This is not an issue of opinion, it is an issue of continuing to challenge art: whereas Parasite challenges nothing. It is as superficial as superficial comes. You can love it, like it, whatever. But it is reckless and foolish to tout it as one of the greatest films ever made. Perpetuating the continued cycle of slop on a conveyer belt the film industry churns out daily. It is a stereotype to respond to this sort of media buzz with “consume more art”, however, those are my parting words. Parasite is a passing fancy. If it remains a staple of cinematic excellence 20 years from now, and maintains its staying power, go ahead and rub it in my face (if the planet is still here).
But what a lovely house.
70. Yorum: "she always ate enough for two"
BITCH bong joon-ho's mind, he's a GENIUS
71. Yorum: If you thought Shoplifters needed the excitement of Crank: High Voltage, then boy do I have a film for you!
72. Yorum: MASTERPIECE.
Parasite is well written. Funny. Stressful. Thrilling. Intoxicating. Incredible. Terrific. Brilliant.
It's about social discrepancy between the rich and the poor. And yeah the title "Parasite" perfectly captures what this movie is all about. Just believe me, the hype is real!! You will laugh your ass off and later you might hold tight to your seat.
And that ending tho!!! I was silent for a moment and like.... Oke... Hhmmm.... Oh my god..... FUCK!!! (high level depression)
(The grand line of the movie rests presumably in the argument that people failed because of fate and succeeded also because of their fate.)
73. Yorum: Junto com A Visita (2015), Parasite é um dos filmes dessa década que melhor trabalha com uma variedade de gêneros cinematográficos. O filme começa como uma comédia de costumes que beira o absurdo (remete um pouco até ao cinema de Yorgos Lanthimos), mas acaba transitando entre vários tons (thriller, drama, terror) sem nunca perder a sua unidade dramática.
Uma unidade dramática que tira forças justamente dessa variedade. Na medida em que novas histórias e personagens são incluídos (como a empregada doméstica e o seu marido), Bong Joon-ho insere novos apelos na sua premissa original. Uma prática que poderia, facilmente, resultar em um filme apelativo. Ainda mais se pensarmos na obsessão do diretor por uma constante reinvenção.
O que acontece é justamente o contrário. O filme vai se tornando cada vez mais complexo já que as relações absurdas em que os gêneros se inserem estão sempre muito bem relacionadas a um contexto social que reflete essa aura insensata da realidade sugerida. O absurdo e os exageros não deixam de ser uma das marcas do abismo social em que o filme se debruça.
A família pobre que se infiltra no espaço da família rica trata a encenação - a dissimulação, os novos papéis que cada um desempenha - como uma espécie de luta de classes travada no palco das aparências. Uma luta de classes que usa a potência da imagem e do drama (os personagens escrevem os seus textos e mudam a sua aparência para passar por outras pessoas) como uma forma de reapropriação da propriedade e dos valores alheios.
A grande proposta de Parasite é reconhecer que a ideia do conhecimento, consequentemente a natureza financeira e moral desse conhecimento, não passa de uma questão de performance. No capitalismo imediatista de hoje fingir saber é mais importante do que de fato saber.
Esse jogo pelo imediato e pela dissimulação é muito bem integrado na mise-en-scène do longa. Bong Joon-ho usa uma variedade de artifícios formais (a decupagem dinâmica, o slow motion, a montagem frenética) e narrativos (a história sempre se reinventa agilmente) como um modo dar conta dessa pluralidade.
Ao mesmo tempo que o filme constrói uma reflexão de motivação política, integra apelos de entretenimento e drama na resolução dos seus conflitos. Um equilíbrio que nunca pende para um lado só e concebe uma experiência complexa e emocionante.
74. Yorum: me, yelling at the kims as i watch this for the third time, knowing full well what’s gonna happen to them: [timothee chalamet british accent] [bangs fist on wall] STOP THE FUCKING CHARADE!!!!!!!!!!! STOP IT!!!!!
75. Yorum: Capitalism is more insidious now than it ever was. There used to be a simple dynamic: merchants, manufacturers, and landowners exploited labourers to create profit. Inequality was obvious. But now, in an era of service sector dominance, liberalism as elitism, and class prefaced as theoretical, lines are blurred. Who are the exploited? *silence* Obviously, still the workers. But capitalism has convinced half the world that the rich suffer. Parasite is a Rorschach test. Some see only the base analogy and go "who is the real parasite?". Please don't be that person. Capitalism is inherently parasitic, not because rich and poor equally exploit each other, but because the rich exploit the poor and the poor also exploit the poor. This is the central thesis of Parasite, which is why it comes down to two working class families fighting each other, and the rich just allowing it through indifference. No longer are the rich just evil mill owners watching as poor people die in the street, they are now nice people like me and you, who just don't like to hear about bad things so do nothing as millions suffer in poverty. Same end result, just marketed better. If you can't understand why Ki-taek stabs Mr Park, you're proof that a century of capitalism has convinced us not to fight for change. Parasite is the perfect analogy for the friendly face of exploitation we now accept as reasonable. Please leave us to die, all we want is to dream of having a house as nice as yours. We won't fight Mr Park, in fact, we respect you for everything. Now let us give this film some awards so we won't feel bad for ignoring the message.
2019 Ranked
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
Academy Award for Best Picture Nominees Ranked
BAFTA for Best Film Nominees Ranked
Palme d'Or Winners Ranked
My Top Films of the 2010s
76. Yorum: "Hell, if i had all this money, I'd be nice too."
i remember when i used to visit my father on the weekends as a kid, and one day i told him i wanted to make movies. he laughed in my face, saying they were a waste of time (and by extension i was wasting mine) and if he wanted to sit around for two hours, he'd do it talking to friends. i remember the two of us watching a Bond movie together one night, and he fast forwarded through all the "bullshit talking parts" to get to the action scenes. i think sometimes about how he perceived movies, and then i begin to think about what movies mean to people in general.
Parasite is perhaps the best and most immediate example of just how wrong this mindset has been proven. the "talking parts" of Parasite play out like a bank robbery in one moment, a bomb diffusion in the next. on a rewatch, im astonished at how quickly this thing moves. the strength of the films script cannot be overstated, how it consistently rewards audience participation, and how every detail feels so meticulously put together. this is a model for how films can actually be directed, by a director with a vision. that this has become a watershed moment in many peoples' lives who are ready to expand their taste in cinema, who are ready to perceive film differently than they did before, is something we can all celebrate for a change.
77. Yorum: Bevor ich 'Parasite' sah, wusste ich nur drei Dinge über den Film:
1.) Ich kenne und liebe Hauptdarsteller Song Kang-ho (The Good, The Bad, The Weird).
2.) Ich kenne das Poster.
3.) Jeder, den ich kenne und der den Film bereits kennt, bezeichnet ihn als den besten Film des Jahres.
Ich wusste also nicht, was mich genau erwarten würde. Ich sah keinen Trailer. Ich las keine Inhaltsangabe. Ich glaubte an ein Gesellschaftsdrama. Ich hoffte auf eine Komödie. Ich rätselte wie bei einem Mystery-Thriller.
Ich bekam all das.
Und ich war gespannt wie bei einem Heist-Film. Ich lachte wie bei einer Screwball Comedy. Ich weinte innerlich wie bei einer Milieustudie.
Jetzt weiß ich drei Dinge:
1.) Song Kang-ho ist noch besser, als ich ahnte.
2.) Ich glaube das Poster zu verstehen.
3.) Ich denke es ist wahrscheinlich der beste Film des Jahres.
78. Yorum: 
79. Yorum: “YOU KNOW WHAT KIND OF PLAN NEVER FAILS? NO PLAN. NO PLAN AT ALL. YOU KNOW WHY? BECAUSE LIFE CANNOT BE PLANNED.” – KI-TAEK
80. Yorum: Rotten Tomatoes: 99%
Metacritic Metascore: 96
IMDB: 8.6
99/100
Release Date: 08 November 2019
Distributor: Neon
Budget: $10M
Worldwide Gross: $253,893,143
OSCAR Nominations: 6
OSCAR Wins: 4 - Best Picture
Total Film Awards: 255
2019 Ranked
Kim-ki-woo: "Cut, cut! Dad, your emotions are up to here. Bring them down to about there."
SYNOPSIS: Greed and class discrimination threaten the newly formed symbiotic relationship between the wealthy Park family and the destitute Kim clan.
Parasite can best be described as astonishing, astounding, stunning or any other synonym of amazing. The very idea of the plot is simple but incredibly hard to execute and that's why it's editing is pitch-perfect and leads to an unexpectedly shocking and brutal ending.
The film is a reflection upon poverty and wealth, an issue that is visible and salient in South Korea where the film is set. It uses humor, likable characters, and a mischievous pace to draw in the viewer. Like a citizen walking towards the crime scene tape and not away, we unwittingly come to consider what it means to be poor, what it means to be rich, and the volatile interface between the two.
TRIVIA: The Parks' house, said in the film to be designed by a fictional architect named Namgoong Hyeonja, was a set completely built from scratch.
The biggest forte of Parasite is the screenplay as it impeccably mixes comedy, drama, and horror featuring flawless pacing, breath-taking cinematography, a beautiful score and a brilliant cast making it a masterpiece.
TRIVIA: Director Bong Joon Ho's win of four Academy Awards in one ceremony ties him with Walt Disney, who also won four Oscars in one ceremony in 1954. However, since Disney won those awards for four separate movies, Bong still holds the record for most Oscar wins by a single person for a single film.
In this down-to-earth-ness, the filmmaker, Bong Joon-ho, explicitly calls on viewers to interpret the movie on different levels. From the opening scenes, the Kim family son, Ki-woon, repeats the word 'metaphorical.' He is ostensibly talking about a rock that is supposed to bring wealth, but we viewers are left to open up wider horizons of meanings, such as societies of great inequality must inevitably devolve into transactional-parasitic relations; wealthy families in the midst of poverty must inevitably defend against the social incursions of poorer people doing what they can to survive, as well as defending against the psychological incursions of bad conscience. In every rich household, there is something hidden in the basement, as least psychologically.
TRIVIA: Won the Palme d'Or at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival, the first Korean film to ever do so.
This film holds its line against the temptation to explicitly condemn the evils of inequality. Instead, it relentlessly represents the dynamics of inequality, drawing away from the judgment of individual characters, leaving it to viewers to make sense of it. Being vague enough to not spoil the ending, the film's climax portrays violence bubbling up as an expression of long-suppressed resentment. It does so in light of a jarring juxtaposition between the despairing circumstances of the poorer family hitting rock bottom and the oblivious self-centeredness of the rich family who are circumstantially geared by the everyday realities of inequality to not want to know about anything outside their bubble.
TRIVIA: This is the first film not in the English language to win the Oscar for Best Picture.
If the film has a political point, it shifts the debate about inequality. Instead of talking about the 'deserving poor' or the 'greedy rich', the film describes the impoverished social ecosystem of unequal societies, and the social roles and habits these societies require of their people. Violence in the face of absurd levels of inequality does not come from character flaws. But, rather, it emerges as the breaking point of the logics and habits of inequality taken to their respective extremes.
Taking everything into account, Parasite is a true work of art and a rare and extraordinary masterpiece.
DIRECTOR: Bong Joon Ho
WRITER: Bong Joon Ho
FILMING LOCATIONS: Goyang, South Korea
Let's have a discussion:
Did you enjoy it? Did you think it was deserving of Best Picture?
What was your favorite / least favorite aspect of it?
Who was your favorite character?
Did this film shape your perception on foreign films and encourage you to watch more of them?
Fact-Checking / TRIVIA Source: Parasite Trivia
Stay safe my friends.
Directing - 5/5
Screenplay - 5/5
Editing - 5/5
Acting - 5/5
Cinematography - 5/5
Prod Design - 5/5
Pacing - 4.5/5
Sound - 5/5
Enjoyment rating - 10/10
81. Yorum: "It's so metaphorical."
Parasite is an operatic, Shakespearean tragedy, and more specifically it is a modern take on the tragedy of the commons—one that actually critiques the traditional 20th century theory and reinvigorates the idea for contemporary society.
The tragedy of the commons is a concept originally formulated in the 1800’s to explain phenomena like overgrazing, situations where independent groups acting in their own self-interest in a shared-resource system work incidentally or unconsciously against the common good (e.g. cows that overgraze an area and leave it barren for future cows). This idea was expanded in the 1900’s to explain social phenomena like the welfare state and the way populations acting in their own self-interest work against the common good.
Ironically, this idea was used at the time to explain why poor people deserve things like high infant mortality—in their minds, because poor people were making bad decisions, not because they lacked access to basic resources—allowing aristocrats a means of justifying their gratuitous luxury and basically saying poor people deserve to die young and shouldn't be provided for by the government. It is good to not help out the little guy because they’re a drain on common resources. (Barf.)
Parasite provides two new perspectives on this concept. In it, there are three families that constitute the independent parties acting in their own self-interest: the Parks, an upper class family living in an extravagant mansion, whose last name means "magnolia tree," a Korean symbol of nobility; the Kims, a lower class family looking for work who gradually employ themselves at the Park household and whose last name means "gold"; and the Gooks, the original housekeeper for the Parks and her husband, whose last name is a racial slur.
The first twist on the traditional idea of the tragedy of the commons is perhaps the more obvious one: the drain on common resources when independent parties act in their own self-interest isn't the poor people who are barely able to sustain their own lives, it's the rich people who hoard wealth and land.
The Parks have a massive house (even more massive than it first appears) and have more money than they know what to do with. They not only pay for tutors for their high school–age daughter and much younger son as well as for a private chauffeur and housekeeper (the jobs the Kims eventually seize), they also buy enough groceries to feed a family for a month for an impromptu birthday party, and they bring home a comically large pile of toys for their son.
Furthermore, the family is constantly framed as clueless—the friend who first recommends working for them calls them "simple"—a conscious framing of their lifestyle choices and social standing as equally thoughtless. This is Bong Joon-ho's characterization of the careless inhumanity of the bourgeoisie, the rich acting in their own self interest against the common good.
Meanwhile, the Kims can barely afford food, they have to use free wif-fi from a nearby cafe just to access their text messages in order to respond to job opportunities, and they live in a basement on a back alley where drunks often stumble in order to relieve themselves. They feel nothing but the dead weight of lower-class living, the inertia inherent to the complete lack of class mobility.
The film presents the Kims, who are ostensibly taking advantage of the Parks, as justified redistributors of wealth; the Parks, in their excessive self-interest, are acting against the common good, and the Kims are simply reclaiming the shared resources they deserve. The true, modern tragedy of the commons is that the rich are selfishly and unequally using up shared resources, overgrazing society like cattle, and the Kims are attempting to resolve this disparity (at least on a microscopic scale).
The second twist Parasite proposes to the tragedy of the commons is a bit more complicated. (Some spoilers follow, so if you haven't seen the movie and care about that sort of thing, you should probably stop here and just go see the movie. It's incredibly good.) In their mission to employ themselves at the Park household, the Kim's final task is to usurp the original housekeeper, Moon-gwang.
They succeed, but in doing so, they discover that she's not the high-class maid she appeared to be: she could barely get by without her job as a housekeeper, and she had even been hiding her husband in an underground bunker at the Park residence, bringing him food from the Parks' pantry. The Kims attempt to blackmail her with this information, but then Moon-gwang discovers that the Kims are also taking advantage of the Parks in a similar way, and she attempts to blackmail them in return.
This is a much more nuanced critique of the tragedy of the commons and can easily be misunderstood as more evidence of poor people making poor decisions (the original misunderstanding in the 20th century conception of the term), but we can untangle this idea if we look not only at what they choose to do, but at what they choose not to do. Two lower-class families choose to fight against each other, and not against their mutual oppressors.
When they both discover that they're each manipulating the Parks, each family thinks independently of their own self-interest, rather than the common good, and lashes out at the perceived threat. They fight against each other for the shared resource of the Parks' wealth, rather than fighting together against the Parks for the shared resource of all wealth. Why? Because the Parks can't be evil! They're rich, and they're nice, even if they're a little empty-headed. Society has tricked them into thinking that the upper class is irreproachable, that the problem must lie elsewhere.
The true, modern tragedy of the commons is that capitalist ideology reframes your comrades as your enemies, protecting the real enemy of the common good. This is Bong Joon-ho's final message: don't fight against each other. Fight with each other.
2019 | Bong Joon-ho
82. Yorum: This is a must-see film with great acting and fun, witty characters. I was intrigued the entire run time.
83. Yorum: -... --- -. --. .... .. ...- .
(that’s morsecode for BONGHIVE)
84. Yorum: Labyrinths, and therefore ghosts, manifested by the excessive designs of wealth for the impoverished to lose their bearings within. For them to not only become spatially disoriented by the bottomlessness of the structure's framework, but to become physically adrift to the point of brotherly pitilessness and self-consuming strong-arm tactics. Earnest derision delivered through the device of a "game" with no innocent players. Not a judgment but a predicament, as nobody is left without the burden of guilt or foul play in a system designed to oppose man against man for the sake of a cushy, pecuniary illusion of safety.
85. Yorum: Arclight. Hollywood. Perfect
86. Yorum: finally got over the one inch tall barrier of subtitles and that’s on cinematic masterpiece luv
87. Yorum: Let's get one thing straight: Parasite is phenomenal. It's a stunning, subtle, and immensely powerful piece on class warfare and the nature of the human condition. It's also a tense, funny, extremely entertaining film that didn't feel its length at all. Go into it without knowing anything if you can; it made my viewing experience all the more exciting.
But with that said...I didn't really like the ending? Tons of details, character arcs, and storylines felt like they were dropped in an instant. And yeah, I know that was the point. But I'd be lying if I said the lack of resolution given to certain characters is something I'm happy about. Like, for how well set up and intriguing Ki-jeong's sociopathic tendencies are, THAT'S what you do with her?
I don't expect my disappointment with the ending to subside with time, but don't let that dissuade you from seeing this film. It's still excellent and I'm looking forward to seeing it again. It's pretty much everything Jordan Peele's "Us" should have been.
88. Yorum: A few spare observations on another theater viewing:
- "oh...phrenia..." is my favorite line and it doesn’t get enough laughs.
- Mr. Park's computer designers tell him his video-game will not run on a simple phone. It requires more computing power. Meaning, uh, only rich people will actually get to play it.
- The hard cut from Ki-Taek wrapping the wire around Geun-Sae to Mrs. Park twisting the noodles around her fork...🙌🏻
- The hard cut from Da-Hye pulling at her textbook page to Mrs. Park counting the bills (and removing a few) before she gives them to Ki-Woo...🙌🏻
- Part of me wonders if maybe Chung-Sook is the most bitter and hostile member of the family because she was an Olympian; she's experienced success, and still wound up in the gutter.
- On the fourth viewing, Moon-Gwang and her husband Geun-Sae become far more sympathetic characters. They represent a threat to our protagonists and we naturally see them as the villains, but they have far less blood on their hands than the Kims, at least until the end.
- I'm of the mind that the ending of the movie is perfect, but I understand the complaint that it feels like it drones on for too long; I think it mainly feels that way because the score becomes pretty repetitive during the final monologue
- The fact that both Geun-Sae and Ki-Taek opened Taiwanese Cake Shops that went out of business and left them in debt is a distinctly Korean touch; I had to do some research about it after the first viewing to understand any of the context there. But it's really significant.
- Cho Yeo-Jeong is the unsung star of this movie. Her comedic timing is off the charts.
- I only just realized that Ki-Taek would have smelled extra-extra-terrible on the day of the party because he was wading in sewage water all night and probably didn't even get a chance to shower.
- Yo, the fact that the set was designed so that the people in the kitchen can't see the people walking up the stairs adds so much to the tension. The geography is masterclass.
- Loveeeeeee the way the riding vacuum is used in the memorial home at the end to add a diegetic "swelling anger" sound effect to the scene in-context. Brilliant.
- The line about "a doctor who looked nothing like a doctor" and "a lawyer who looked nothing like a lawyer" begs the question: is *everyone* in this universe pretending to have expertise to maintain their position of power? Am I reading into this?
- The fact that Mrs. Park begs her husband to buy her drugs (and he suggests using the old panties to get hard) speaks to the underlying truth: this family is so utterly incapable of doing anything themselves that they will always require outside assistance - even to have intercourse.
- "Good girl, Jessica nice" is such a quality laugh.
More of my thoughts about the movie here: link.medium.com/TKfMoLlAI1
89. Yorum: “They say ghosts in the house bring wealth”
Bro quit supporting capitalism Ur scaring the Bong Joon-hos
90. Yorum: Instituting the "Gentleman's 4," in which I rate a film 4 Stars due to its objective and undeniable artistic and technical merit even though my personal enjoyment hovers from 3.25 to 3.50 Stars. It will be noted by the symbol *G4 at the beginning of the review. So...*G4
Retroactively applying the *G4 to Midsommar and The Lighthouse. So update your spreadsheets.
91. Yorum: 
92. Yorum: damn that kid really has the worst birthdays huh
93. Yorum: AH YES FINALLY SOME GOOD DELICIOUS MASTERFUL CINEMA!!!!!!! THANK U BONG JOON-HO
94. Yorum: If you don’t like Parasite keep that to yourself that shit is embarrassing
95. Yorum: Kim: hey whatcha got there 
Ki-woo, holding the Metaphor Rock: large boulder the size of a small boulder
96. Yorum: The Lot Roulette, Pick by Frank
Recommendation by Jem
I respect the craft. But I don't care.
The hype train really crashed and burned for me on this one, I tried really hard to not factor it into my thoughts or my rating, but I'm really sad that the #1 narrative feature film on Letterboxd has replaced character writing, the art of the twist, and emotional depth with "muh class warfare though." It's not like classism is a bad topic to cover, just look at films like "Bicycle Thieves," "99 Homes," or take your pick at one of the many enthralling true white-collar crime documentaries such as "Fyre" and "Enron: The Smartest Guys In the Room." Even Bong Joon-ho's excellent previous work "Mother" dips into classism to help wind up the wallop that film unloads on you. But this film? Ambivalent at best and lazy at worst with its elements.
I couldn't care less for a single character, and that's almost impressive considering how many there were to juggle. No one really goes beyond their level of wealth or intelligence, the only emotional latch to really have is one's sense of justice and believing that people should get exactly what they deserve (AKA, this film is for people who love to complain about the Kardashians while believing they're meant for better things beyond working the Burger King drive-thru). The tone never really finds its footing between biting satire and seething emotion. And the twists reek of being rather Shyamalan-like, violently twisting the story to kill any interest in the currently unwinding threads and then stepping on the gas to speed past anywhere you thought the film was going. It just builds on more semi-metaphorical layers of class divides before it can properly parse through its current path. "Parasite" doesn't feel like it's building to anything; it smashes your current lukewarm dish to replace it with another until you don't feel satisfied with your meal nor hungry for anything more.
I don't know what "Parasite" was trying to say, if anything at all. It's shallow sadness porn at points and shallow "kill the rich" ethos at others. It wants to make you feel sad for the poor and angry at the rich, but also makes an argument that the poor are conniving and so rotten that the stench of their actions can never be washed while the ambivalent rich should be stabbed for having noses. Metaphors are fun when no one factors them into the literal script, aren't they? "Parasite" feels icky, the exact film made by people for people who frequent r/ABoringDystopia, hide behind communism on Twitter because they want a yacht ASAP and want to mass-murder people they don't like nor agree with without understanding breadlines suck, and stayed in bed on the day they promised they were going to raid Area 51. It's just nihilistic platitudes with an okay script, great cinematography & set design, a score that has much to be desired, and very poor pacing to justify "Damn, this party's getting crazy! Having fun yet?"
In the ending of Vittorio De Sica's "Bicycle Thieves," after a barreling story where the protagonist Antonio reaches his lowest point, he and his son Bruno walk into a crowd, visibly shaken by the events that had transpired, and slowly fade from the audience's view in a crowd. It's terribly depressing seeing the two fail their journey and disappear like ghosts, but there's an unwritten "final act" where the two still have their whole lives ahead of them. Today was a failure caused by systems out of their control they were powerless to do anything against, but they still have tomorrow as far as I'm concerned. It is the epitome of the human condition: existence is pointless, fruitless, infuriating, unfair, hopeless, insignificant, but FUCK IT we have tomorrow. "Parasite" feels like a heckler standing in front of me going "NOPE Antonio and Bruno should kill themselves cause they didn't kill Alfredo lulz PogChamp." Justifying why you put the knife into someone does not cut out what you lose as a person putting it in there and what's going to determine when the knife stops. And, as it turns out from watching this film, justifying why you put the knife into someone isn't all that interesting.
97. Yorum: ARE YOU FUCKING KIDDING ME
98. Yorum: “I would say it did entertain me” -my mother
99. Yorum: My body was ready. My soul was ready... My mind was not ready.
100. Yorum: celebratory bong hits worldwide
101. Yorum: bro i cant read wtf are they saying bro
102. Yorum: RUN 👏🏻 BONG JOON-HO 👏🏻 HIS 👏🏻 OSCAR 👏🏻
103. Yorum: Parasite was amazing on a first watch but on the second watch it was infinitely better. When the movie showed me the Park house for the first time in my second viewing, a really strange feeling washed over me. A feeling that it doesn't matter what either family accomplishes it's all going to have a tragic ending. Although this movie blends genres in a very entertaining way, it's still a bleak and bitter view of the world. The winding plot has seemingly no end and the morality of every single character is ambiguous. Everyone is so flawed but redeeming enough to root for them. Truly masterful storytelling, nothing is overused or held back from the audience. It's not a surprise a masterpiece like this has so much universal appeal and transcends its setting time period.
ReRanking IMDB Top 250
104. Yorum: 
105. Yorum: "Well that was unexpected"
-Me every five minutes watching this.
106. Yorum: Action! - The Sudden Shifts of Bong Joon-ho
Nice to revisit this film after four years without seeing it, and I guess it’s a great sign of a movie that long after it all stays fresh in your mind. And even then, you get to feel the thrills, the excitement, the laughs and have more or less the impact of the surprises, as I did back when I saw it for the first time.
Also, as I did back then, I believe the most unbelievable thing of the whole movie was my man surviving that rock smash thing. Like I literally got killed and survived being hit by something as hard as a TV when I was a child, but not like twice. My bro should have been dead. So at least that whole prologue was a dream, I don’t see how he made it out alive. But this other character, who fell off a stair, didn't survive?
With that out of the way, it's great to see that after almost 30 years in his career as a filmmaker, he managed to not only release a brilliant film, but one that will set such a precedent, breaking through many barriers and records, getting the BP at the Oscars the next year. Something I still regret not voting for in my ballot. I should have gone with my guts and not with the trends. However, the director masterfully balances the tension with the humor, skillfully executing this clever script that tells the story of a social Icarus who strayed too close to the sun, mistakenly believed they could escape, and ultimately faced a tragic outcome. Ultimately, it's ironic that the only thing they are left to do is what they should have done in the first place: embrace the status quo? I feel like the film spent a lot of its runtime giving the impression that you can subvert all expectations and break away from the norms just because, in the end, this proving to be impossible, as if to say we are doomed to the system. Whether it's because everything is rigged or because of our actions, or a matter of both. Funnily enough, these individuals wished to become parasites, and one got their wish. But at what cost?
All in all, brilliantly performed, written, edited and directed, this might not be the greatest SK film, but it's certainly up there in the top echelon.
Action! - The Sudden Shifts of Bong Joon-ho
TODAY SCHEDULE
The Housemaid
Okja
Parasite
Celebrity
107. Yorum: Body odor class warfare. The high class house is a film stage where social tension is acted in a series of seen/unseen gestures. Privilege is a matter of who is allowed to do either. Smell is key because it can’t be play acted in the social theatre. Our daily horror is becoming a ghost. As often with Bong what is so effective is how everything is build into the film machinery as cinema apparatus is just another instance of the same system.

I went longer on some of these ideas at my blog:
English
Portuguese
108. Yorum: many thanks to the online dictionary, who helped write part of this review
parasite [ par-uh-sahyt ] (noun): 1. an organism that lives on or in an organism of another species 2. one that lives off and flatters the rich 3. one that habitually takes advantage of the generosity of others without making any useful return (careful readers should note that 2 and 3 are not one and the same)
home [ hohm ] (noun): 1. a place where someone lives 2. a place of belonging or comfort 3. a place that binds 4. a place where our secrets live in the dark (careful readers should note that sometimes they come out)
crossing the line [ kraw-sing th ee lahyn ] (term of speech): 1. to bypass certain boundaries 2. to upset or annoy one who is in a place of power over you 3. the brief cough a lady makes in your backseat after the mildew in your clothes does not wash away 4. a man running with a knife, because he simply cannot take it anymore
family [ fam-uh-lee, fam-lee ] (noun): 1. a unit or group that sticks together 2. people bound by love or maybe something deeper 3. a thing which is cold and chilly and ornamental. (alternate definition) 4. the only thing you have left after everything else has been taken from you
to want [ too wawnt ] (verb): 1. the act of wanting 2. to have an emotion that others will try to deny you 3. to have an emotion you will try to deny to yourself
to stab [ too stab ] (verb): 1. the act of taking a sharp object, generally a knife, to take the life of a human being 2. the act of disposing of people who cared for you like trash under your shoe 3. the act of wounding each other, as you sink into the ocean under the weight of your want (see definition above)
ghost [ gohst ] (noun): 1. the spirit of a person 2. a soul 3. a haunting image 4. a trace 5. an unwanted presence (careful readers should note that these are all one and the same. be wary of what crawls up from the dark in the middle of the night.)
109. Yorum: Roses are red
Violets are blue
If you don't like this movie
I'll kill you
:)
110. Yorum: I thought there was gonna be like an anus worms type of Parasite in this but it was good anyway.
111. Yorum: So when can we expect the bad Hollywoood remake that totally misses the point of the original?
112. Yorum: holy shit that left me jaw dropped for a solid 30 minutes
113. Yorum: “If you make a plan, life never works out that way. With no plan, nothing can go wrong.”
Critically acclaimed auteur Bong Joon-ho returns to Cannes film festival this year, becoming the first South Korean director to win the prestigious 'Palme d’Or' award for his latest work, Parasite, a darkly-chilling examination of class inequity and an indictment of late capitalism.
Bong is a peculiar director whose previous works include: Memories of Murder and Snowpiercer. His films regularly transcend the genre qualities one expects it would be beholden to; rather, they are often amalgamations of contrasting genres that somehow piece together under the resolute command of his craft.
His latest work, Parasite, follows this tradition. There are so many twists and turns in the film that crucially inform its political message that it’s best to go in cold. Putting it simply, the plot revolves around the Kim family that is best described as a pack of grifters: all unemployed, living in a gloomy basement, and headed towards poverty. They leech off the Wi-Fi from surrounding coffee shops and fold pizza boxes to stay financially afloat. When a neighborhood fumigator comes their way to spray the surrounding streets, they purposely leave their windows open, in hopes of killing the pests that live among them.
When the eldest son of the Kims, Ki-woo, is given the opportunity to tutor a wealthy teenage girl, Da-hye, he agrees and coyly introduces himself as “Kevin” to the Park family. With his cunning, Ki-woo succeeds in getting the rest of his family employed by the Parks, each maintaining separate identities: his sister as an art teacher to Da-hye’s younger brother, his father as the chauffeur to the Park patriarch, and his mother as the housekeeper. Slowly but surely, the Kims invade the Parks’ household.
The first half of the film is a comedy of manners akin to Oscar Wilde’s The Importance of Being Earnest as the audience root for the downtrodden Kims to succeed at the expense of the Parks. It is undeniably entertaining and cathartic seeing the Parks get their comeuppance in this heightened reality. The Parks aren’t the stereotypical wealthy family who are secretly miserable, nor do they hold an outwardly elitist worldview. They live in a large house, wear expensive clothes and lament on small pity things. But underneath their glamorous facade, lies something intentionally ignored so as to not contaminate their immaculate lifestyles; the Parks are bafflingly naive and blissfully ignorant of the fact that their success and wealth is built off the backs of the invisible working class. This obliviousness and bewilderment to social and class inequities somehow make the Parks even more despicable than if they were to be pompous and arrogant about their privilege.
This is not to say the Kims are made to be saints by virtue of the Parks’ ignorance. The Kims are relentless and conniving as they assimilate into the Park family, leeching off their wealth and privilege. But even as the Kims become increasingly convincing in their respective roles, the film questions whether they can truly fit within this higher class. At one point Ki-woo asks Da-hye: “In this setting, do I fit in?” Bong forces his audience to confront the dark truth of capitalism and whether social mobility is even possible when the poor are fighting among themselves to survive while the rich grow richer and more ignorant of the societal issues that plague its most vulnerable. And though the film is steeped in social commentary, it is thoroughly entertaining and never feels like a didactic message movie.
Meticulously crafted and undeniably compelling, Parasite succeeds in its effortless shifting between family drama, comedic satire, and suburban horror to deftly examine the exploitative symbiotic relationship between social classes. It daringly questions whether we too are seduced by the alluring lifestyles of the wealthy as to ignore the appalling social conditions needed to sustain them. Parasite is biting and timely commentary that aptly bookends the 2010s.
114. Yorum: .
115. Yorum: You can never escape your smell. Maybe, you think, if you make a lot of money, and buy that big house, those people won’t notice; the money will wash it away. That’s the hope you cling to.
116. Yorum: I was going to call this the best movie I've seen this year, but honestly it might be the best movie I've ever seen in my whole life
117. Yorum: 
118. Yorum: Lemons into lemonade.
119. Yorum: how am i supposed to fall asleep after witnessing possibly one of the best movies to ever be crafted ?
“if i had all of this i would be kinder.”
120. Yorum: Just rewatched this timeless, best decade-ender film of the 2010s along with a friend of mine, who began venturing into Asian cinema for the first time today. Parasite is a Korean dramedy thriller film tackling class division by juxtaposing the lives of the affluent Park family and the penurious Kim family. Director Bong Joon-ho has been criticizing the growing social class divide in South Korea with his previous films and, despite being his recently released film, Parasite is probably the most critical, cut-throat film of his that perfectly captures the attention of his audience by combining comedy and thriller, while simultaneously showing the harsh realities of being in the South Korean working class. The storytelling, directorship, pacing, and cinematography blended in such a way that every scene becomes either emotionally appalling or stirring in its finest. Its message and symbolism has never been as relevant as today, considering that the rich can afford to rent private islands to escape the pandemic while the poor are getting eviction and unemployment notices. Parasite proved that even relatively low-budget films, when executed perfectly, can win prestigious awards, and opened doors for not just Asian, but international cinema in general, that the Westerners, just like my friend, can appreciate cinema beyond the English language when they overcome that one-inch tall barrier that is the subtitles. While I do think that Bong Joon-ho produced better films than this one, Parasite will remain as his magnus opus that will be talked and analyzed for decades to come.
121. Yorum: never have i ever been so wrong about what i thought a film was going to be about... my mind is still absolutely blown as i'm writing this two days after my viewing. bong joon-ho completely lures in his audience, making us feel connected to these characters even if we don't have anything in common with them all the way until the very last frame.
it's been quite a while that i've been this enthralled by a film and i can confidently say this is 100%, hands down, no competition the best feature of the year—parasite is a masterclass in direction, editing, acting, cinematography, set design, producing, and just about everything else under the sun. what an outstanding way to end the decade and i absolutely cannot wait to revisit this and see what i missed the first time.
 2019 RANKED
122. Yorum: Parasite 
Noun
A person who relies on or exploits others and gives nothing in return.
So, who is the real parasite? The Kim Family? Who pretty much go all Shameless at the beginning, by chronic manipulation. Or, the Park Family? The wealthy family, without a hint of empathy, and total unawareness of anything or anyone, not in their same social class bubble? Yes, they pay the Kims, but they also exploit the hell out of them.
It probably is a mix of both, and kudos for Bong for telling one unforgettable story. The beginning is excellent, as the Kim Crew creeps into the lives of the Parks. The narrative keeps on flowing. You know something is going to give, but you can’t quite see what is coming in the surprising climax.
Is this Bong’s best? I don’t think so. But, I’m glad he is finally getting the attention he deserves. Social class structure is nothing new for Bong. From Memories of Murder to Snowpiercer, Bong has frequently explored this topic in obvious and not so very obvious forms.
One thing that got to me was the way Mr Park talked about how Mr Kim smelled. Especially, when he had no clue Mr Kim could hear him. What people say when they can’t be heard, is that when people show who they really are?Another powerful scene focuses on Mrs Park in a car, and Mr Kim realizing she can smell the “poor” on him. Powerful cinema from Bong and Kang-ho.
Parasite makes you think. That’s why I’m only giving it 4.5 stars on this first watch. I simply couldn’t digest everything I needed to. Of course, I look forward to revisiting it again. Should it win Best Picture? I wouldn’t be sad if it did, but I stopped caring about the Oscars a long time ago. If an Oscar nomination gets you to explore the work of Bong, then I can’t complain.
Parasite is definitely necessary viewing for every single person on planet Earth, or something close to that.
123. Yorum: this movie will always be the best thing ever happened to myself as a cinephile
124. Yorum: “WE FUCKING WON!!”
                   - Bong Joon-Ho’s liver.
125. Yorum: Genuinely thought this was supposed to be a horror movie when I put it on!💀 I was waiting for some kinda monster to show up!😭
Damn! This was batshit crazy😰. I totally get the hype. Had me on the edge of my seat.😳🩸🔪  
Personally, was a bit too depressing for my tastes🥲 so I probably wouldn’t rewatch it but it was genuinely INCREDIBLE🙌. I want to live in that house🤑.
I’ve heard Saltburn compared to this a lot and I totally see the similarities👀 but I honestly preferred Saltburn. It was more fun to me🕺.
126. Yorum: Parasite is the film of the decade. Not because it's the best (but it's in contention), but because it so perfectly defines the world as it exists right now. Capitalism has made us all parasites, as worker solidarity is crushed beyond hope beneath the veneer of consumerism and individualism. The workers now want to be capitalists and work within the system, not dismantle it. The rich people in Parasite may not do anything explicitly bad but society arbitrarily chooses to allow their wealth to let them avoid consequences and troubles, which is why we cannot and should not side with them. Rich people can afford to be nice, that doesn't mean we have to be.
What amazes me about the embrace of Parasite internationally is that it is totally uncompromised, unsanitised, and unmistakably Korean. The violence, the genre-bending, the very specific dissection of Korean class structure, the North vs South element (Kim vs Park), only Bong Joon-ho, working in Korea, could have made this. The subtle critique of America, through the way the rich idolise it, and the use of colonial imagery, makes the film's success with Hollywood liberals ironic. If also sad, since Bong's messaging is clearly not reaching everyone.
Parasite is a rare, near-perfect film. It is meticulously constructed and executed with the skill of a master craftsman. The ensemble cast is amazing, and Song Kang-ho continues his streak of being one of the greatest actors alive. What else can be said about Parasite? Everyone already knows how great it is. Except for me, I guess, since I didn't rate it 5 stars on my first viewing. I'm an idiot.
2019 Ranked
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
Academy Award for Best Picture Nominees Ranked
BAFTA for Best Film Nominees Ranked
Palme d'Or Winners Ranked
My Top Films of the 2010s
127. Yorum: 70/100
Second viewing, up from 63. The finale's not as misguided as I'd thought, even if I still firmly believe that Bong undercuts his primary, razor-sharp theme by having Dad stab Mr. Park. To be sure, that slow burn is quite strong—there's something singularly humiliating about overhearing others sneer at your eau de poverty, and it's entirely plausible that seeing Mr. Park wrinkle his nose in disgust at that moment would make Ki-taek snap. Were Parasite's class-war conflict more conventional—simply rich vs. poor—I'd have no qualms. But the genius of the film's left-field twist is the way that it pits one underprivileged family against another, echoing the pointless jockeying for crumbs (as opposed to, say, seizing power from the entitled minority) that permeates the entire capitalist world. Parasite draws the most blood if the Park family emerges entirely unscathed; Bong's actual ending (including the whole Morse code thing, which is overly contrived for my taste) muddles the implicit message (per Sinéad O'Connor): "Fight the real enemy." There's plenty of poor-on-poor violence at that party, though, and a second viewing really brought home the film's gift for staying vertical. Even when the Parks get low to the ground, fooling around while reclining on their couch, the Kim family can be found lower still.
128. Yorum: ┏┓ 
┃┃╱╲ In this 
┃╱╱╲╲ house 
╱╱╭ ╮╲╲ we love 
   |     🍑       |  & appreciate
▔▏┗ ┛▕▔ 
╱▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔╲ 
   💰 💵 money 💵 💰 
╱╱┏┳ ┓         ┏┳┓ ╲╲ 
▔▏┗┻ ┛         ┗┻┛▕▔
  ┃                   💡            ┃
  ┃      ▔▔ ▔▏   💡      ┃
  ┃                   ▔▏   💡 ┃ ☀️☀️☀️☀️
  ┃                       ▔▏     ┃
  ┃🐶🐶🐶            ▔▏🚪 🎂 ⛺️🌲🌱🌲
    ▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔
  ┃ 🤕                             ┃
  ┃                                   ┃
  ┃     🛏    🍌          🚽 ┃
    ▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔
⬇️⬇️⬇️⬇️⬇️
💧 💧
       💧 💧
            💧 💧
   💧 💧
          💧 💧 💧
   💧 💧
🌧🌧🌧🌧🌧🌧🌧🌧
╱╱┏┳┓╭╮┏┳┓ ╲╲ 
▔▏┗┻┛┃┃┗┻┛▕▔
  ┃ 🌊🌊🌊🤳🚽🌊┃
  ┃💦💧💦💧💦💧 ┃
    ▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔▔
🌊🌊🌊🌊🌊🌊🌊🌊🌊🌊

Masterpiece.
129. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho always manages to create films that somehow define genres and exist in a realm of their own. Parasite is no exception.
It's the type of film that intrigues throughout its entire running time as there is this unmistakable feel of it leading up to something. What that something is remains in the dark for a long time, not because of a cheap writing trick, but because of Bong Joon-ho's aforementioned talent for creating things that refuse to be niched. As it's not really clear what you're watching, everything remains open, making it an absolute joy to watch.
The cast, led by Bong Joon-ho's meticulous direction, is uniformly excellent. They manage to capture a tone that beautifully walks that fine line between realism and surrealism. This film is all about shifting perspectives and searching for who you're supposed to connect to. The way the cast manages to convey this is really impressive. They all go from protagonist to antagonist, from villain to victim with the greatest of ease.
There really is a huge amount to enjoy in this unique film, but it's not without its faults. To me it felt like Bong Joon-ho overreached his grasp somewhat. With a build up as great as this, the pay off needs to be equally impressive and while it certainly packs a punch, it lacked the subtlety of the previous acts and somehow felt telegraphed too much. In and of itself it is a well crafted final act, but linked to what came before it, it just missed the mark for me.
Still, Parasite is a unique film, of which we need a whole lot more if you ask me.
130. Yorum: 
131. Yorum: yup there’s no better way to be spending my 21st birthday than with my favourite film of all time <3
132. Yorum: when i say eat the rich, the rich mom from parasite is excluded from that narrative
133. Yorum: Last night, I watched a group of beautiful Asian people get on stage at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles and accept the most prestigious award that the American entertainment industry can bestow on a piece of art.
It was an uplifting affirmation that the best stories, the best art, the best work can come from anywhere. And be recognized for it.
134. Yorum: Just unbelievable.  It’s been a long, long time since I’ve felt so wholly gripped by a film from beginning to end.  Jesus Christ, it’s good.
Side note, this is an excellent argument for the inherent weakness of genre categories.  Seriously, what genre is this movie?  It’s all of them and none of them.  It’s just Parasite.  Time to rewatch.
135. Yorum: Yes.
136. Yorum: Como disse um amigo: administração cultural da miséria e do desalento.
Ninguém vai colocar a questão de como podem ser políticos esses "filmes políticos" que tratam seus espectadores exatamente como o liberalismo trata sua mão-de-obra e seus consumidores? As pessoas esqueceram a esse ponto do que já foi feito por Lubitsch, Fuller, Lang, Buñuel, Fassbinder, Ferreri, Straub em contextos ainda mais extremos, com soluções muito mais sofisticadas? A financeirização das mídias (Netflix, Festival de Cannes, transmissão do Oscar etc.) é quem realmente vai pautar daqui para a frente as discussões sobre um conceito que se tornou oco como "cinema político", ainda mais quando ele se fia em filmes como este?
Esta década tem mesmo é que acabar logo se as pessoas nem conseguem ver a coisa mais óbvia do mundo: Parasita, Bacurau, Us e Synonymes são os Z, Midnight Cowboy, Easy Rider e Queimada! do neoliberalismo.
137. Yorum: the tent won’t leak, it’s american.
138. Yorum: i laughed, i cried (a number of times), i sweat, i danced, i got *smiles* shot, i ate, and... i had many epiphanies

anyways,

          call me by                             parasite
          your name            
                                        🤝
                        being a masterpeach
139. Yorum: Letterboxd Season Challenge 19-20
2019 Ranked

Palme D’or winner Parasite is by far the best film of the year so far and the only film that might be able to top it is The Lighthouse. This film does what so many of my absolute favourites do and that’s blending extreme intensity with hilarious dark humour. There are moments that have your heart racing as fast as lightning but then 2 minutes they’ll be a scene where you can’t help laugh.
From the very start this film hooks you in and keeps you guessing the whole way through. However it’s not just a nail-biting thriller, this film has so much to say about the lower and upper classes. Our protagonists, a lower class poor family, are conniving and cruel yet we root for them because of their intellect and the fact that we can get behind their struggles. Opposed to the rich family, whose house they sneakily earn work in, who are far more laid back and oblivious but nevertheless they show contempt for others they consider below them.
As well as all if this technically this film is perfect. The stunning cinematography conveys emotion tremendously and is just a feast for the eyes (I wish I saw this in cinemas). The tight editing wastes no time and the pacing is as perfect as it could be. 
Bong Joon Ho knows how to direct a film and this is easily one of his best efforts. I can’t wait for more people to see this; I genuinely think this movie is impossible not to like.
140. Yorum: okay i’m daring literally any other film to be as good as this
141. Yorum: holy fucking shit
142. Yorum: America needs to say fuck off to “genre” and get on board with Korean style tonal shifts. Entire runtime was absolutely searing.
143. Yorum: 
144. Yorum: “...a familiar shape in a familiar zone.”
in the immortal words of rihanna: that was quite a show, very entertaining. im not as well versed in bong joon-hos films as id like to be, but from what i’ve seen he’s accomplished the perfect class conflict battle, shrouding it in a mythical, deadly mischievous air. most artists can only dream of being this in command of their art, and bong joon-ho makes juggling pitch perfect structure(s), genre blending/tone, and total character realization look like anybody who picks up a camera could do it. even if that’s not true, he at least shows us these kinds of stories are possible, and that’s probably enough.
145. Yorum: So much to dissect. So much I can't say without spoilers. Don't watch trailers, don't read descriptions, just watch the movie. It's the perfect storm that somehow strikes a balance between mainstream/accessible and profound/layered. I love it so much.
146. Yorum: Watched it in Korean without English subtitles. 
Works almost as well this way, granted I already know the story well, so understanding the dialogue wasn’t important, but the film progresses so well visually. 
I thought doing this would help me pay closer attention to the editing and cinematography, but ironically most of felt different was the sound design. Lots of subtle pre-lapping that helps lead us between scenes here that I hadn’t picked up on before.
147. Yorum: i actually will never get over how fucking good this is
148. Yorum: Believe the Hype und geht so unwissend wie möglich rein.
149. Yorum: it took rewatching this to realize how iconic (at least for me) so much of it has already become as a part of the cinematic landscape. a symphony of meaning. and so much funnier than even the people who think it's funny give it credit for.
150. Yorum: call me by your name wishes to have such an iconic peach scene as this
151. Yorum: I can’t believe I ever liked this movie, what was I thinking?
Overacted, lack of diversity in the cast, and there were no standout performances. 
The plot jumps all over the place from one genre to the next, and there are so many plot holes?  Would anyone ever really be living under someone’s house? That’s just blatantly unrealistic. It preaches these themes of class struggles and self-worth but is just an over-inflated ego boost for Bong Joon-ho.
Not looking forward to whatever projects anyone involved in this movie has next, a hard 1/2 star for Parasite.
Also...























April Fool’s 🤡
152. Yorum: - “It’s a chimpanzee, right?”
- “A self portrait.”
James Joyce once said that if all of Dublin was destroyed overnight, it could be recreated through his book, Dubliners. The short stories are paralytic in their appeal, and suffocating to read – in a way that only the truth can be, it is obscene. This is how I felt watching Parasite, but its reality was not limited to a city. It was a mirror shining against the wound of the world, and it looked infected. These are not people. They’re ventriloquist puppets.
The first thing I do each morning is look in the mirror – call it vanity, call it conditioning. A few hours ago I looked back at my reflection. My skin had cleared up, my hair looked curlier than usual – I felt alive in the absence of sleep. It was only when I turned my head at an angle to wash my face that I noticed a red bruise on my eyeball, as if my blue pupil had started to leak onto porcelain. A blood vessel had burst, and I was too distracted by my red hair to notice. This is the way that Parasite creeps up on you, like quick-gold, blood slipping down marble stepping-stones. The scenery is beautiful, and the situation unique – especially for London chain cinemas – but the cord is cut before you can feel at ease, and soon, wounds are cut deep.
Blood is hardly a difficult find in Oscar films – Once Upon a Time… In Hollywood likely spent more money on their ketchup and corn sugar budget than they did on Margot Robbie’s salary, but it’s made emblematic under Bong Joon-Ho’s touch. Fake blood is a catalyst in the form of a hot-sauce packet. Without this finishing touch, the lives of these characters wouldn’t be iconoclasts, but rather people living the middle-class, fool-proof American dream. Their lives begin and end, metaphorically , with blood. We live by the sword as we die by it, and that is the story I explored during the two hours I sat in that theatre. When real blood is spilled, I was cast into an uncanny valley – in the Park’s residence, drug addicts and Madonnas are just two sides of the same coin – Mr. Park tells his chauffeur that what he feels for his wife is that – “we’ll call it love”. No one can tell what’s real until it’s put to mortal stakes, and real people die over superficiality: real love is tested over sacrifice and hiding.
To be controlled by the tides is something we will never admit to, but we all are. The lives of Ki-taek’s family are decided on the roll of the devil’s dice when rains hit and their home is flooded. It was at the end of the film, however, when it hit home just how much we are victim to an external, impenetrable force, and it came in the form of when Ki-yung was hurt by the man living underneath the underground. She tells her father to stop pushing on the wound – that it makes it hurt worse. She knows she’ll be swept away with the waves of change, because the world has to propel itself parallel again. She has turned the tides of one family, and now hers must also be altered. Like a boat, for it to be ship-shape, all pressure must be balanced.
I wondered the ‘chain of being’ as I watched Ki-yung lounge in a lion-footed bath, whether she really did fit in there. Her mother says proudly closer to the beginning of the film that she’d have made an excellent con artist, but she is alone when she is relaxing, as well as when she lights up the Lucky Strike as her toilet spews tar. Where does a girl with a mind as vast as a canyon and a third eye as wide as a gulf belong? To nature? To a rich husband? To herself? Perhaps we were meant to learn that nobody belongs where they think they do. We win the life we’re born into not on how good we are, or how much we try to fit in, but simply that we never deserve the deck of cards we’re shuffled into. People are not stacks of coins, or cigarette filters, or plans to be made. The only thing that bonds people together is their victimhood, and it is the one thing we want to leave behind us and yet, can never hope to.
153. Yorum: Joon Ho’s genius mixture of genres comes from an ancient line of very specific auteurs. The most relevant name that came to my mind is Youssef Chahine, in particular Cairo Station (1958), where the treatment of genres followed a similar pacing and structure until culminating with one of the most spectacular effects of cognitive dissonance ever displayed in celluloid, and the genre shifting is activated with a plot point. This essay constitutes a social satire through dark comedy eyes about marginalization of social classes, social status discrimination and one of the most toxic ideas that has predominated in the highest spheres of power and superficial ideologies: that balance is restored through violence.
The now internationally famous South Korean director steps away from national politics and demystifies a societal axiom: no socioeconomic class possesses a higher moral than the other. Both life levels are ridiculed through satirical eyes without diminishing the struggle of the lower class in capitalist societies. The gargantuan entertainment value never sacrifices the thematic subtext of this carefully crafted essay, and the great majority of performances are quite exceptional. My only minor complaint is that the target rich family is too credible and unsuspecting for fueling what Ho’s script has stored beneath its magical sleeve; nevertheless, the events unleashed are of great surprise and, while you’re smiling at the comedic success of scumbags, it is inevitable to feel a strong, thriller-derived heart-pounding even before the thriller genre is officially introduced through one unusual stunt that only Asian cinema could bring along.
The low-class struggle is a theme that has been pervasively treated cinematically even much before Neorealism; thanks to Lumière, we noticed that human exploitation was quite present among women much more than we would think nowadays. With more modern deliveries, the imperialist philosophy of ruling over goods and territory through the acquisition of power is each time more present in cynical films, including developing countries. However, the extreme opposite is also debated and suggested. This film constantly brought Luis Estrada’s films to mind. When he goes political, his commentaries are quite assertive, such as in La Ley de Herodes (1999), but when Un Mundo Maravilloso (2006) came out in national theaters, I remember attending at the age of 16 and leaving the cinema enraged at the ending under the excuse of “black comedy”, because the ending was poisonous and contradictory to no end. Joon Ho is careful enough to leave the concept of justice as relative as it actually is, while playing with wonderful camerawork throughout in order to suggest the preconceptions we should have before and during each scene and then destroying them with surprises.
So far, it seems like nothing will dethrone Memories of Murder (2003) as my precious Joon Ho masterpiece, simply because, in spite of being primordially a thriller, it explores human psychology and impulsive motivation more acutely. That is not the particular focus of Parasite; it all just comes down to what we consider more relevant to our artistic sensibilities. Even so, this has become one of the few successful cases in recent world cinema that has united both international masses and arthouse critics alike in agreement (if they could be separated as such, because they can’t), such as Pulp Fiction (1994) and The Pianist (2002). Maybe it's because of our consciousness: Who is the real parasite? The question is not answered with the social strata filter.
96/100
154. Yorum: kinda crazy how this has been one of the most hyped up films in the last couple years by both critics and audiences and it still managed to blow my expectations out the water. brilliant.
155. Yorum: and its gonna do it for me every time
156. Yorum: 
157. Yorum: watched the black and white cut and it is SO beautiful and even more haunting let me tell you!!!! it’s so metaphorical!!!! it’s REALLY strong!!!! i’m deadly serious!!!!
158. Yorum: Criterion Collection Spine #1054
(Foreign language film - Korean)
Taking advantage of the susceptibility of the rich can be a lucrative affair, maybe even downright parasitical.
“You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. Got it?”
There have been a few films recently when I noted it would have been nice to have more of a handle of the plot going in, but Parasite is not one of those films! This Palme d'Or winning domestic thriller from Writer and Director Joon-ho Bong takes its time getting the story setup, but after that point this crazy twisty ride goes into overdrive. And it was an absolute delight to see how it all played out. This is the kind of movie that hits my cinematic sweet spot with its thought provoking thematic subtext, stunning shot composition, and a gut-punch of violence that you never see coming.
Parasite is about a close knit low-income Korean family who lives together in a city apartment. Right from the opening we get a sense that their very bright despite their financial situation, as they wander around their home looking for a spot to login into some open Wifi. The son then gets recommended to take on tutoring job for the wealthy Park family.
Seeing this is a good setup, he manages to talk his way into getting his sister hired as well without revealing they are siblings. Then before you know it as a result of some malicious scheming, the whole family gets hired to work various jobs for them. But then on a dark and stormy night, they come to find out they are not the first ones to notice the perks of working for the Park family.
I hope Parasite is nominated at the Oscars for more than just Best foreign language film, because it is easily one of the best films I have seen this year. And if you typically don't watch foreign language films, I would recommend giving this one a chance because it is simple to follow and still packs a punch.
Spoilers...
On that dark and stormy the family gathers together for a celebration of their conquest when the Park's are on a camping trip. That's when they hear an unexpected knock at the door. They find out it's the old housekeeper who they managed to get fired by making it look like she was very ill. Come to find out she needs to get back in the house, because her husband who owes debts is living in the house's hidden basement. Before long this couple figures out what the family is trying to pull and wants to expose them. Meantime we find out that the Park family is just moments away from getting home since their camping trip rained out.
From this point Parasite had the feel of a very unique home invasion movie, as the family works to silence the couple and not be discovered along with the big mess they made. This leads to some very tense moments which leave you holding your breath to see if they can manage to get out of there without being noticed.
Some more quick hit takeaways from Parasite:
- My favorite character is probably the father based on the pride he has for being an excellent chauffeur. But when he is hiding in the house he finds out while his employer is speaking candidly to his wife that he actually thinks the father smells bad (like bad radishes). This totally crushes the father's confidence, and really triggers him toward the end when he notices the father being bothered by his smell
- The little boy of the Park family is very funny with the observations he makes. He is a Cub Scout and it was cute how he insisted on still setting up his teepee style tent in the back yard to sleep, despite the rain. It is also neat how him being a Scout plays into the whole morse code element that plays in throughout
- Wow, that sirloin ramen snack looked good!
So in the end, the husband of the couple escapes the basement all bloody and starts going berserk. Then instead of the father helping, he ends up killing Mr. Park because of the whole smell thing he notices during the panic. The father is then able to escape by taking the man's place in the hidden basement.
Then we get one last surprise at the end when the son describes how he discovers his father's location via morse code from a porch light. We then get a scene where the son becomes wealthy and buys the house in order for his father to come out, and enjoy this wonderful home with him once again. But then it flashes right back to him in his same circumstance, showing that his vision of success was just a dream as he goes back to his reality.
Thanks for reading.
Happy movie watching ... SKOL!
159. Yorum: so right after graduating a v snooty college, i was homeless for two months. i had some promising job interviews but nothing lined up yet, and one of my friends was gonna let me move in with her once she got her current roommate situation sorted out, but that wouldn’t be until September. so i was in full couch surfing panic mode
but i did have one resource at my disposal. during college i'd dated the daughter of a bigshot executive at some legacy news outlets, and eventually gotten to meet the big guy himself. he took a liking to me and would invite me to dinner every time we were in the same city, treating me like the fascinating subject of his new biography even though i was just some dumb Polack from a blue collar Chicago family
and like... you know rich people. they have more than they could ever possibly need, and they love to think they’re kind and generous
so i told him about my plight and he was like well that just doesn't make sense. you're smart and urbane and charming, so it just won't do to have you checking into shelters and hostels every night. and for most of that period before I could move in to a permanent address, he offered to let me stay in his pied a terre on Central Park West
occasionally i had to clear out and erase all presence of my existence because he'd tell me that someone rich was coming to stay there for a night or two. (i’mma note here that the pied a terre had several bedrooms and could have easily fit me plus his other guests) but i still got to live, for the most part, this charmed life in this lavish building in one of the most expensive neighborhoods IN THE WORLD and befriending the really hot doormen. hell yah
and i remember one time i got in an elevator and there was this older guy who saw what floor i was going to and was like, oh, floor 8, that's the big journalism man. and he asked me, are you the son?
and every part of me just wanted to say yes. yes i am the son. this man that you're obsessed with enough to know what floor his apartment is on, i'm his son. this man that you know little enough about personally that you don’t realize that he doesn’t have any sons lmao, i’m his son. this man that you clearly see as an important cultural gatekeeper, i'm his son
i'm the one that can get you access to him. you want to write some hack fuckin article about your business in his weekly magazine? talk to me. i can make that happen. you want to be on a cable news panel so you can brag to your shitty dinner party goblin friends about it? beg me for that
i ended up not saying any of that because it seemed... profoundly risky. and because this story is kinda about me being a coward
but i wanted to say it so bad. i wanted to be the one with the power, the one with the access, the one that could be impressed, the one that HAD to be impressed. i saw how fucking ugly this guy was, prostrating himself over the journalism man’s glory in a golden elevator, and i hated him for it. i hated him for the same ugliness i'd covered myself in so many times. lying in bed and practicing all my dinner party anecdotes that could make rich people fall in love with me enough to extent me ephemeral scraps of charity
did you know that the Roman emperor Caligula was a lot less mad and incompetent than history remembers him as? is what i'd ask them. that was a favorite story of mine. It’s a wild oversimplification of the history, but it’s true enough and which one of these empty-headed dorks was gonna call me out on it
did you know that the famous story of him trying to give a Consulship to his horse Incitatus was actually a symbolic gesture on his part to show his contempt for the patrician class? a fuckin horse could do your job better, he was telling them. and the Romans loved rewriting their history to talk shit about whoever had just forcefully tumbled out of the seat of power, so they damned his memory and said everything he did was incoherent clown shit
did you know that the common people loved Caligula, by and large, through much of his reign? he offered them a generous grain dole and lavish public works and rousing games... which he funded by executing patricians on trumped up charges and seizing their assets. Isn’t that wild, that this guy who’s synonymous with hedonistic madness might’ve been more of a ruthless, canny populist leader than we give him credit for. isn’t that a smart and charming and urbane story you just listened to
they loved that anecdote so much. enough of them confirmed it to me directly that i can guarantee you they repeated it time and time again in the company of their high society friends. and i can guarantee you that all they internalized from it was "this friend of mine, this very charming and sophisticated young man who's a scholar of ancient Roman history, told me this fascinating story about an emperor. the secret is… he’s NOT what you might remember from school!"
i can guarantee you none of them internalized what i was actually telling them, which was, "holy shit dude i'd like to kill you”
160. Yorum: Turn on the lights and watch the roaches scamper away, under the sink and into the sewers, scrambling for car keys cursing yelling toppling over chairs and tables and decorations and the cello in a frenzy. Calling this movie a 'wild ride' would be an understatement, it's free falling into madness. If you know Bong you'd know nothing develops the way you expect them to. I'm trying my best to not spoil anything so if I have to leave one takeaway for this review it's that Bong's signature dropkick is missing, the drunkard was right there, two times, no drop kick, I don't know who to trust anymore.
161. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho just did that.
162. Yorum: how this got no oscar nominations in the acting categories is beyond me
163. Yorum: 7 meses desde que assisti parasita e penso todo dia que nunca mais verei uma obra tão perfeita, completa e coesa em toda MINHA VIDA
164. Yorum: **A MASTERPIECE WINS THE OSCAR AWARD FOR THE BEST PICTURE**

One of the best films of the year.
I didn't know anything about this film except the title and the director's name, that's the reason I enjoyed every bit of it. Another great work by Bong Joon-Ho

Hilarious, heartbreaking and edge of the seat suspenseful 2hrs 12minutes, with very good cast, brilliant direction and beautiful cinematography. The film starts with comedy and as it moves forward it changes it's genre.
Believe all the hype and watch it (It's better to watch without knowing anything about it.)
MUST WATCH!!
165. Yorum: Rewatching this multilayered record-breaking monster of a film in theaters post-Oscar win with a group of occasional movie goers, my mom included, who might’ve not seen it otherwise was a treat. I noticed a few subtleties I didn’t catch the first time and was able to breathe a little knowing where it was headed. I left the theater as I did my first watch, extremely satisfied with the gem I had just seen, but powerless to the realization of what that fourth wall-breaking last shot meant for not only the story and it’s characters but us the viewer as well. My parasitic ass needs a drink.
166. Yorum: I hate how brilliant this movie is. Bye.



໒( ⇀ ‸ ↼ )७
"The best plan is no plan at all".
167. Yorum: a masterpiece in every sense of the word
168. Yorum: If there is one word to describe Parasite, it would be “miraculous.” It goes beyond the boundaries of genre, language, and culture to deliver a story that anybody around the world could relate to even though it is rooted deeply in South Korean society. I’ve only watched two movies from Bong Joon-ho and it’s enough for me to label him a master of the craft. The way he shifts humor to horror and optimism to despair is effortlessly seamless. It’s hard to pull off a story when the tone shifts fluidly without conflicting the audience, but Parasite does it flawlessly. 
Parasite is such a fitting name for this masterpiece. The Kim family are parasites for invading the Park family’s home by taking on jobs under false pretenses. On the other hand, the Park family are parasites by feeding off the poor, overly relying on their labor skills in order to live comfortably. This is just one example of the many metaphors that are spread throughout this movie. I am so blessed I got to watch this historic movie when it first came out in theaters. It was a landmark in 2019 and will remain the same as the years go by. For Bong Joon-ho to create a movie that feels specific and universal is an incredible achievement that has transcended the genre to new heights.
169. Yorum: 
170. Yorum: PARASITE is a total and utter knockout of a masterwork from Bong Joon-ho!! Darkly comedic, emotionally wrought, socially relevant & absolutely twisted. Go in as blind as humanly possible. Bong better win all of the awards because I have no earthly idea what will even be able to compete with this. Constantly evolving with biting satire, gripping tension and drama, it culminates in a stirring climax that had me shouting up on the rooftops how much I love cinema!!! It’s a flawless work of art.
171. Yorum: Parasite is structured like a hill: the first act is an incredible trek upward toward the light, toward riches, toward reclaiming a sense of humanity as defined by financial stability and self-reliance. there is joy, there is quirk, there is enough air to breathe to allow for laughter and mischief.
i am curious to see how this act holds up on rewatch. i thought briefly of some criticisms of Hustlers repetitiveness; here, though, feels more intentionally cyclical rather than incidentally repeated. the greatest strength, though, are in the marveling performances, especially by Park So-dam, Choi Woo-shik, and Cho Yeo-jeong. you feel a tenderness toward the siblings, and a sharp understanding that they are smart, capable, and cunning, whose talents are left to squander among filth, piss, stink bugs.
but every hill must go down, and Parasite is an incredibly balanced, plotted, and paced descent downward into darkness. the horror doesn’t rely on shock value, but rather is built upon a slow burning dread that is rooted in the tainted soil of class, society, and duty.
these abstract themes, however, have concrete and violent implications and realities. it is as real as the meals cooked thanklessly by a housekeeper, as real as the miles driven thanklessly by a chauffeur, as real as tutors and artists, as real as pizza box folders, as real as mothers and fathers and sisters and brothers. it is as real as doing whatever it takes to make a better life for your family and yourself. it is as real as the rich living beyond their means without even considering the limits, while simultaneously sidelining and burying and dismissing the bodies upon which their wealth is built. it is blood, it is wit, it is happiness, it is sewage, it is snow, it is sunlight.
Bong Joon-ho dresses this disease up in beautiful sets and empathetic framing (the camera doesn’t gawk, but perceives invisible connections and overt inequalities)—only to unravel it with deft hands, revealing a family of wounds for which there is no monetary or dutiful salve. i’d be really interested in someone with more knowledge writing about how he plays with and mutates this particular genre or narrative of family and class… the twists feel particularly nuanced because they’re echoing a history of film and the past itself.
so what, then? if that past is covered in shit and stench and peach fuzz, what now? as dark as Parasite becomes, Bong Joon-ho offers back a sliver of light, but not without the dangerous edges of hope: maybe there is no better tomorrow, not with the poor remaining poor, and the rich getting richer. but… maybe there is. maybe there is a more equal future that can be molded from the pain of yesterday, when we move beyond the “metaphorical” into the painful reckoning with the darkest parts of our collective humanity, of one another, of ourselves.
172. Yorum: think of the greatest heist/scam movies, movies about working class and unemployment and slow-burning thrillers but much much better.
173. Yorum: The most original film I’ve seen in a very long time
174. Yorum: Now that I've watched Parasite (2019), Burning (2018), and Oldboy (2013), I guess you could say I'm somewhat of a Korean cinema expert.
175. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's satirical black comedy thriller is an ingeniously well-crafted film that has a dim view of contemporary society and an unconventional approach in its atmospherics. It warrants the praise it's received including winning the Palme d'Or at the 72nd annual Cannes Film Festival as well as being selected as the South Korean admission for the best international film at the 92nd Academy Awards.
It's genuinely comical one moment then tense and terrifying in the next; all the while maintaining plenty to say regarding capitalism and class conflict. It's narrative pivots on displacement and trying to assign fault to individual characters proves to be an ineffectual undertaking, as everyone is partially guilty. It certainly demonstrates that to move up in the world requires someone else to be brought down and that it's the system above all that is at fault. Parasite is an incredibly captivating movie and unquestionably one of the films of the year.
176. Yorum: Pretty toothless imo, the kind of satire intended to feel incisive without actually offending those at the centre of its ostensible target. Content to gently mock the obliviousness of the rich without actually digging into the systemic abuses their existence allows beyond obvious acts of little dehumanisation. Or, at least, I don't think Bong really pulls off what's maybe supposed to be here, so lightly does he connect the cannibalisation of the working class to the rich family above them that it feels like he's letting that family off the hook. There are no real characters here, just sketches that Bong and co allow to battle with such precise direction and strong humour that the film around them appears to actually slice open the facade it mocks without ever really doing so. When every character is equally thin, letting the ones up top remain simply foolish instead of malicious on any level feels both cowardly and lazy. Maybe that's the kind of satire that allows a class comedy to win top prize at the most prestigious film festival in the world, and maybe I wouldn't be so harsh on this if it wasn't presented in a semi-arthouse context (with a BS, audience-implicating look to the camera). If this was made as a clear lark by some random genre-head and it premiered at Fantastic Fest or whatever, I'd probably give it more slack. But it's not, it's made by one of the most respected international filmmakers currently working, one who has enough recognition to actually get real play in English-language countries. So it feels like a cop-out, which made it feel tiresome and a bit boring.
I thought about three works a lot while watching Parasite: The first was Us, which, for all its looseness, actually feels ambitious and full of rage in ways that are invigorating. The second was Mon Oncle, a film whose gentle style and mean-spirit I found at odds with one another—but maybe Parasite's precise style and faux-mean-spirit are an even worse combination, because it can trick you into feeling properly outraged even though nothing really biting has been presented. The third was the book A Little Life, which I thought was much, much worse than this movie, but my distaste for it came from similar sources.
177. Yorum: In Parasite, many scenes are characterized by the presence of stairs going up and down: from those of the splendid villa of the rich Park family, to the incredibly long stairways that surround the city of Seoul, and which lead up to the squalid and smelly neighborhood where the proletarian Kims live. Bong Joon-ho's film is the story of a social opposition and the difficulties that people belonging to the lower classes have to face in trying to improve their condition. Often, in fact, those who find themselves at the bottom of the "ladder" desperately try to move up the the steps of society, so as to redeem the misery of their original situation. Nevertheless, those with great wealth and a high social position tend to neglect the reality of the weaker sections of the population and such disregard comes at a cost. The South Korean director weaves these themes together in an ironic and grotesque introduction, which however later gives way to more dramatic and disturbing tones. The shift in register is unsettling, but inserted in a very natural way into the narrative, thanks to a masterful writing and direction, and to the perfect performances by an ensemble cast.
Qui la recensione in italiano.
178. Yorum: "The plan keeps coming up again
And the plan means nothing stays the same
But the plan won't accomplish anything
If it's not implemented
"Like it's always been
And it makes me think of everyone
And the cause of this is evident
But the remedy cannot be found
'Cause it's so well hidden
"This history lesson
Doesn't make any sense
In any less than
Ten thousand year increments
Of common sense
Common sense
Common sense
Common sense
Common sense"
179. Yorum: Despite all challenges, a historic moment finally came into fruition exactly one year ago today. Out of the 9 films nominated in the Best Picture category at the 92nd Academy Awards, only 1 was Asian. The odds were generally always stacked against films with characters speaking a language that isn’t English, because not everyone can understand a language beyond that and their native one and the general public isn’t fond of subtitles. I remember rooting for this film while I was watching the livestream of the event and thought that Best International Feature Film is the last award it can get, as for the entire 92-year history of the Academy has no non-English film ever won the coveted Best Picture. I recall rooting for Jojo Rabbit because let’s face it, the Academy sure loves giving feel-good movies that award, or 1917 because of its divine one-take effect that bewildered me in theaters–a place that I miss, by the way. Worst case scenario, my least-liked nominated film, Joker, will win. My lack of confidence for Parasite winning isn’t backed by anything, as statistically speaking, before it, the other ten non-English language films that were ever nominated in this category failed to snatch the award, and that includes Life is Beautiful and Roma, two films that completely shattered me in my first watch. But then, the winner was announced and it was indeed Parasite, and I swear that was the last good thing that ever happened in 2020. 
In that exact moment, I remembered a friend of mine dragging me into watching this film way back in September of 2019. I admit that my love for cinema wasn’t as pronounced before, as I only watch films that I know I would love and a South Korean film directed by a director I don’t know–yes, I haven’t watched much Asian films and I’m changing that–isn’t exactly appealing to my mainstream moviegoer ass. But thank God my friend literally dragged me to a local theater near our university to watch it because this film made me appreciate Asian cinema in a much wider scale. I was in complete awe after that ending and I kid you not that we’ve watched that film again the next day. Before Parasite, I can count all the Asian non-Filipino films I’ve watched using my hands because of my bias towards American and European films and it’s an understatement that it opened a Pandora’s box of curiosity in me, that made me appreciate cinema in general. 
A year ago, an Asian film opened a multitude of opportunities for other Asian and international films to be recognized and considered. It was an inspiring night for all non-white directors aspiring to win the biggest recognition of all time and to know that language truly isn’t a barrier for cinema. That an Asian, just like me, went on that stage and gave a speech only us can understand. That speech still resonated with me until now; that you will come to know countless other films once you overcome that 1-inch tall barrier of subtitles. It truly was a beautiful sight to watch, but one year later, did anything really change? 
As you may have already know, the Golden Globes completely shut Lee Isaac Chung’s Minari out of the Best Picture category because Korean is the dominant used language in the film. For some of you, it’s not that big of a deal, but Minari is in all sense an American film. It was directed, produced, and written by Americans and even the plot is about about an American family adjusting in the states. While you may argue that they’re Korean-American, they are literally living the American life and are Americans by nationality, so I don’t understand how that makes them less of an American. The fact that that Golden Globes knew this beforehand and still banned Minari from the Best Picture category is beyond absurd to me and their reasoning fueled my anger even more. They honestly assumed that Americans only speak English and nothing else, and if you’re an American who can speak more than English, you should definitely be outraged. I was expecting that things would change after a non-English film won one of the most prestigious awards a director can ever win and that the other awards committees would change their policies, but alas, I was wrong. The denial of talent and recognition stems from the lack of diversity and internalized racism in the members of film awards and it’s extremely infuriating that it’s still the way it is in this time and age. 
For so long, non-white directors have struggled to tell their stories and get an ounce of funding and recognition and I won’t let that continue any longer. I may not have that big of a voice and I may have been a month or two late in this issue, but my point still stand. I’m afraid that this will have a domino effect and the Academy will also snub Minari out of the Best Picture or all of the main categories altogether. While it may be true that Parasite opened a lot of doors for non-English films to be appreciated, I’m terrified that it will also be the last, because a bunch of film snobs, who refuse to watch a film because it isn’t spoken in English, will continue to normalize their backwards mentality. I think I’ve said this before but I’ll say it again: Parasite isn’t the pinnacle of Asian cinema. Sure, it’s a beast of its own, but remember that Asia is a huge continent filled with talented directors, screenwriters, and actors of the past, present, and future, who made and will make films that are so great the only thing it need is someone who will watch and appreciate it. Be that someone. 
In summary, I remembered that Parasite won the Best Picture award exactly one year ago today and decided to watch the Criterion Blu-ray I’ve bought. I may got a little bit emotional after watching. Seen the B&W version by the way God it’s so beautiful in UHD. 
Also thank you for the support in my last rant (previous review). I was too upset and annoyed that day that I just snapped but rest assured that I’ve cut ties with that person. I took a two-day off from interacting with anyone besides my closest of friends and fixed my sleeping schedule (I sleep before midnight now can you believe) so you can say that I’m fixing both my physical and mental health while I still have my uni break. Anyways, stay safe everyone!
180. Yorum: 2019 Releases Ranked-HERE
Parasite is a 2019 South Korean black comedy thriller directed by Bong Joon-ho and stars Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik, Park So-dam, Jang Hye-jin, and Lee Jung-eun. The story follows the members of a poor family who scheme to become employed by a wealthy family by infiltrating their household and posing as unrelated, highly qualified individuals. Parasite won an incredible 4 academy awards for Best Picture, Best Original Screenplay, Best Director and Foreign Language Film at the 92nd Academy Awards.
What have you been doing if you haven't seen this film already? Living under a log? Bong Joon-ho's Parasite (기생충) is a true masterpiece of filmmaking and the perfect way to end the decade. The films take on class division by juxtaposing the lives of the wealthy Park family and the sly Kim family is truly incredible. Like many of Bong Joon-ho's recent work, he criticises the social class divide that's rampant in modern day South Korea. I think what makes this film stand out from many anti-capitalist films, besides how well-made it is, is how it explores the social system. Usually, when films condemn capitalism, they do it by showcasing capitalists as cartoonish evil and killing the lower classes but not really saying much about what the problem with the existence of capitalism is. Yet, that's what Parasite does best. Capitalism, as shown in this film, creates indifferences between classes, which makes the rich unaware of the poor's problems and keep benefiting from harming the poor. It also alienates and makes them hard to relate to them, only seeing them as these people who don't fit in to their lives, as parasites. Capitalism is what creates greed in people. It is what keeps a few happy but keep the vast majority of the poor miserable and that's showcased brilliantly with the rain scene. The poor suffer massively with the flooding and loss of many of their belongings from it while the rich are lucky and experience seeing the rain as a pleasant atheistic. We can see how the wife is just happy with it while being unaware how much damage did it caused for so many people that are less fortunate than them.
There is no such thing as the perfect movie but goddamn, Parasite comes close to it. The film is so much more than just a stance on capitalism, it's an utter masterpiece. Unlike the rest of the world, the UK didn't get to see this till early 2020 and what a way to kick start a (very disastrous) year. Undeniably Parasite holds some of the best cinematography ever put to film. It's truly gorgeous to watch with each scene being a thing of pure beauty. On top of this, the storyline is fantastic. The Park’s lavish lifestyle and excessive wealth give them a sly ignorance and an understated snobbery that makes them unaware and removed from the struggles of the lower class. Their total obliviousness to the scam being played on them is where much of the humour in Parasite stems from but exists in the narrative as a whole lot more than just the driving force for laughs. It exists to create a film based in reality. A film that, despite its outlandish ideas, seems all to real to the viewer.
Now, although I watched the Black and White version this time around, the original has a colour scheme that looks phenomenal. However, upon this viewing it was the black and white version, the way it looked really stood out to me. Parasite is a film that honestly works wonders in B&W and looked stunning throughout and thanks to Amazon Prime, it's a version everyone should experience. 
"Dad, today I made a plan, a fundamental plan. I'm going to earn money, a lot of it. University, a career, marriage, those are all fine, but first I'll earn money. When I have money, I'll buy the house. On the day we move in, Mom and I will be in the yard. Because the sunshine is so nice there. All you'll need to do is walk up the stairs. Take care until then. So long." -Kim Ki-woo.
Ultimately Bong Joon-ho's satirical black comedy thriller is an incredibly well-crafted film that has a dim view of contemporary society crafted by its fantastic storyline. Parasite begins in exhilaration and ends in devastation. The triumph of the movie is that it fully lives and breathes at every moment and captures the audiences attention miraculously. The film captures every aspect with perfection. The acting is pure excellence, the cinematography is breathtakingly beautiful and Bong's direction is as masterful as always. When it comes time to consider what the best film of the 2010s was, this one will surely be up there alongside some of the best films to have ever be released. Everything from the calm composed nature of the first half to the shocking twists of the second makes it undeniably clear, Parasite is a true masterpiece of filmmaking and one everyone should experience multiple times.
What's your opinion on Parasite? 
5/5
181. Yorum: BEST PICTURE WINNER BABY!!!!!!
182. Yorum: 
183. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned."
As a young child, I would often look at massive estates that passed us by as I sat in the backseat of my parents' car during our leisurely drives and wonder what it would take to end up living in such fenced-in opulence. Since then, I still find myself taking the odd daydream stroll in these extravagant lifestyles. There's one difference though: I now see what the true cost of such a life is. Beyond the obvious dollar value, I've come to recognize that, especially nowadays, wealth (unless you're born into it and, often regardless or even because of it) comes with an insidious morally-compromising toll.
With Parasite, Joon Ho Bong manages to turn the rose-colored wishes of my childhood into a deeply affecting nightmare that acknowledges the mature realization I came to with a steady and methodical hand. Through his eyes, this classist parable bursts with ingenuity and intrigue. What results is an unrelentingly transfixing yarn that stands above the director's already outstanding oeuvre.
Somehow even more so than with Bong's other films, this is a richly (forgive the pun) crafted tale that delivers outstanding performances across the board. It's a testament to these actors and to Bong and Jin Won Han's writing that what could, in lesser hands, be the product of convenient contrivance instead becomes the resplendent allegory that it is.
Precious few films have commanded my attention the way that Parasite did. Its endlessly amusing condemnations and pointed social skewering had me caught in a trance as I watched schemes spill into contained chaos. Even now after having let my thoughts dwell on it, I can't quite categorize it because it's a thoroughly chimeric film that shrewdly plays with genres as well as it does with your expectations. It's the rare case of a film that achieves an emotional equilibrium worthy of its premise.
Parasite is a true masterpiece and easily Joon Ho Bong's best film. For my money, it's the best film of 2019 so far and almost certainly an end of year, top five feature. Whatever you do, do not miss it.
Favorite Movies
2019 Watchlist Ranked
184. Yorum: So fucking good.
185. Yorum: It disappoints me that so many people adore this movie. I don’t want to be a discordant opinion — especially because I stand in the totally opposite camp. It’s not as though I simply didn’t care for Parasite: I think it’s a gross failure.
I want to articulate what I have to say without coming off as condescending... this movie tricks its audience into believing what happens. The whole affair is false, contrived; people don’t actually behave like this. And I don’t buy the argument that it’s all a metaphor — because it is, but metaphors need to evince an underlying human truth. Parasite reveals nothing except a shallow estimation that wealthy people are gullible and to be resented, while poor people are devious and to be pitied.
And yes, widespread poverty is a crisis of our world that we have the power to alleviate — but this movie does nothing to suggest how we might do so. Its stylish pessimism is merely a sign of its lack of imagination. And its lack of real care.
Writer and director Bong Joon-ho thinks he’s done something brilliant. We’re fools to applaud him for this manipulating, unnuanced travesty of socioeconomic injustice. Parasite only makes the problem worse: it lets us feel bad, and so enables our complacency.
“That was a really good movie,” we say, and then toddle home to scroll through our phones and nod off to sleep.
186. Yorum: Well now. I should have known—Once again I’ve been Bong Joon-Ho'ed.
187. Yorum: “Do you know the plan that never fails? The plan is to have absolutely no plan.” - The Father
After months of joining Letterboxd and seeing from the outside reviews of this movie, I finally watched it. The first thing you have to do if you are here without having watched the movie before, just get out of my review, this is a movie that you have to watch totally blind, as I did. Anyway I’m pretty sure that I’m the last user of this film-focused social network that waited that long to watch it.
I had high expectations, of course when there’s a movie that everybody enjoyed and the only thing you find are high rates, the first thinking is that it should be for a reason, anyway I’m a bit distrustful, but I have to admit that this is a masterpiece from beginning to end.
Everything that takes place in this movie is unexpected, everything in here unleashes intrigue and makes the viewer wondering what is going to happen.
It has some moral lessons between poverty and wealth but well I’m not going to talk about that, the message is clear enough.
It’s a highly recommended one if you haven’t watched it and you got to this part of the review somehow.
188. Yorum: I was so worried I wouldn’t get to see this again in theaters. I gotta say, despite varying outcomes, the net skull durability in this film is astounding.
189. Yorum: mentally i'm in that basement.
190. Yorum: ‘Man is the only animal which esteems itself rich in proportion to the number and voracity of its parasites.’
~ George Bernard Shaw
Bong Joon-ho's "Parasite" will forever more be known as the first film not in the English-language to win the Academy Award for Best Picture, a noteworthy historical achievement long overdue for global cinema. The multi-faceted nature of the film: it confidently crystallises a variety of artistic genres and tones, appeals to a universal audience - even those adverse to reading subtitles - and envelops the core social parable at the centre of the text (as opposed to being relegated to supporting subtext) so it can be felt, realised and understood by viewers all around the world. While reading some Bernard Shaw prefaces recently, I was struck by comments he expressed, which help to define the implicit meaning of the film's ambiguous title. If I told you that the plot revolves around the dubious interaction between a wealthy nuclear family and a nuclear family residing in penury devastation, I suspect many will envisage the latter scavengers to be the parasitic trouble as they find a means to strip mine the fortunes of class members above them, by clinging to riches they do not possess rightfully. I turn to Shaw for his thoughts on the distribution of income between the proprietary class and a wage proletariat: ‘In this division the proprietary class is purely parasitic, consuming without producing... its demand for domestic servants and for luxuries of all kinds creates parasitic enterprise and employment.’ Shaw had stringent words for the faults in a capitalist society and so too can we say that Bong shares some of these complaints. Although it could be argued the pauper individuals flimflam their way to a better wage through cunning, but deceitful and merciless, strategems, this family is no less sympathetic than the family residing in proprietary luxury, who arguably leech off the production services from the lower class for their own consumption. The resulting synthesis growth lies on a scaffolding of co-dependency.
This is dependent on whether you view the transfer of money to be a fair payment between classes, a small pittance handed out to those who do a decent job without ‘crossing the line’ that invisibly prevents the mixing of two disparate economic livelihoods, through an alert consciousness of class protocols. The conclusive parasitic factor in "Parasite" is the actual class system as it continues to facilitate and enable such harmful relationships between the high and low society. Such a thematic synopsis recalls the great Akira Kurosawa's "High and Low" in both title and content, a film about a kidnapping committed by a disgruntled member of the lower classes living in destitute slums, who attempts to bargain with the victim's affluent father for a ransom deal. In "Parasite" there are visual parallels to these concrete vertiginous differences. The Kim family live in a half-basement with a partial view to the street above, while the Parks enjoy a mansion towering above the Seoul skyline. Jonathan Romney refers to it as an ‘outrageously opulent modernist house’ and Justin Chang calls it a ‘masterwork of real-estate pornography with its vast, cavernous spaces.’ The topography rise upwards symbolises the sense of a snob-like privilege away from the smells of the peasantry depths. Bong includes many shots of the Kim family's patriarch ascending the flight of stairs within his own home with light sensors greeting his arrival, and this contrasts starkly with images of the Kim family once they 'unpark' themselves from the Park home, an act requiring they climb down a gargantuan number of city steps to reach their abode down so low it is level with the sewers. It is paradoxical in the way a powerful elite member like Mr. Park can simultaneously have his nose so far up in the air and yet look down on people like Mr. Kim, with a distinct unpleasant aroma confirming the need to mind the gap on the societal anomie ladder.
Many are born into an inherited heritage that will pigeonhole them with a specific lot in life, making it an easier action for a prodigal rich person to gamble away a fortune and descend into the lower class than for a hard-working, intelligent and resourceful individual to accumulate enough in wages for their skills to remove the shackles and ascend into the upper echelons of class comfort and stress-free existence. It is possible that the Park patriarch - Dong-ik (Lee Sun Gyun) - is a self-made millionaire in the technology industry but quite another matter to assume he rose from the underworld. He does mention having to ride the subway in his past, where he recalls a ghastly scent associated with the commoners, so evidently he was not born into immediate wealth. Bong's film, however, chiefly aligns us with the four members of the Kim family from the outset as we observe them in the cramped space just barely scraping by to make ends meet. Father Ki-taek (Kang-Ho Song) and his wife Choong-sook (Hang Hye-jin) live here with their two adult children Ki-woo (Woo-sik Choi) and Ki-jung (Park So-dam). Ki-taek is very encouraging to his children that they should provide for the family as a collective rather than rest upon the parents to do much of the heavy lifting, an approach that downplays the idea of the family being wholly parasitic. They work hard to earn their keep, and I certainly would not begrudge anyone devoid of financial security using their initiative and street smarts to adopt a persona more tailored to an employer's criteria. If the employer fails to do their due diligence before hiring a new employees, future pretext revelations cannot be retroactively deemed a shock.
On this particular day, as the movie begins, the Kims have recently had their mobile phones disconnected and must scour the corners in search of incremental free Wi-Fi, which will allow them to read messages from potential employers. There is some good news as a pizza takeaway business has granted them an opportunity to earn an income by folding pizza boxes, although the overall pay for the energy used collectively will strike a chord with minimum wage workers busting their chops to barely eke out an acceptable welfare, while helping make corporate heads of a company wider margins of profit through cheap labour. After having some pay docked because one of the four let the team down (subtle foreshadowing), the family is not entirely disheartened with Mr. Kim, who encourages his children to play their part as providers too, giving an impromptu speech to celebrate their reconnection of telephone devices until they can find some other odd-job for the next rainy day. It is a tribute to the family that they never allow themselves to be defined by the circumstances, as shown by the 'seize the day' alcohol consumption here (a gentle confidence in their abilities to always find work) rather than frugally putting aside a little for tomorrow's uncertain trials. That lingering view out the half-basement window is metaphorical of their status hovering around the threshold of abject poverty, with a frequent drunken man relieving himself from the eye-line of their kitchen table a rather ghastly reminder of their supposed value to the South Korean economy. The view is obscured by exterior fencing, which from the interior radiates an imprisoned existence physically and mentally.
Perhaps the reason for the Kims' general sense of consistently finding a source of modest income lies in their past achievements, which we learn through their dialogue interactions. The family have run the gamut of jobs, and for many positions they have resorted to hoodwinking prospective employers with applications enhanced with false statements. The daughter has earned much of her keep by playing roles in small-time con artist gigs. For example, she mentions how she was paid extra because she caught the bouquet at the wedding of a woman who she did not know personally. I admire the close-knit intimacy of the family that exists in spite of their tight living conditions, not because of it. Bong frequently frames the foursome in the one shot, and all tend to be working on something productive. For example, Choong-sook constantly scrubs the apartment without being overwhelmed by the losing battle against a cockroach infestation. In contrast, the Park family are rarely framed in an isolated shot - the dynamics of that family are splintered spatially with a sharpness matching the straight lines décor of the home to evoke their isolation.
The gullible mother Yeon-kyo (Cho Yeo-jeong) has a potent fear of her husband's power and a clear favourite child, which irks her teenage daughter Da-hye (Jeong Ji-so) because she believes her hyperactive younger brother Da-song (Jeong Hyun-joon) is merely feigning his eccentricities for attention. Only outsider installations (like a tutor) and the diligent housekeeper Moon-gwang (Lee Jeong-eun) manage to bridge the psychological gaps between the nuclear members, and instigate a connection rooted deeper than superficial bonds. In comparison to this family, Chang argues ‘the Kims are a model of functionality and egalitarianism. Living together in close quarters has bred in them a matter-of-fact intimacy and a wily self-sufficiency.’ Meanwhile the Parks have disposable income to burn, and with a largely absent father absorbed in business meetings, it is down to the mother to hire tutors for her children, and ostensibly she chooses candidates who she enjoys the company of, even if they do little to improve her daughter's grades or hone her son's obsessive art output; an output that can be pinpointed to a traumatic catalyst (glimpsing a ghost in this house) that Yeon-kyo prefers not to relive in pursuit of a healthier present for her son. When a newcomer arrives and instinctively relates to Da-song's creative expressions, there is relief on her part that finally someone else can deal with the son's psyche and discover a potential cure.
Their golden opportunity for a symbiotic relationship between the two families presents itself in conjunction with a urinating delinquent outside the half-basement, as a friend arrives with a peculiar gift for the Kims; a rock bestowed with a magic to bring its owners great fortunes. Min-hyuk (Park Seo-joon) is a university student who is earning a good income by teaching the daughter in the rich Park family, and he wants his friend Ki-woo to take care of the precious student while he studies abroad, based on the good faith belief that Ki-woo will not overstep the boundaries of the student/teacher code of conduct. This is for purely selfish reasons, as Min-hyuk has a romantic infatuation with Da-hye and plans to ask for her hand in marriage once she comes of age. Ki-woo is told by this friend that his knowledge of English as a subject is of a higher level than his self-entitled college compatriots. Interestingly, later in the story Ki-woo will enter into an inappropriate relationship with this student and, as well as betraying a friend's trust, Ki-woo will also mimic Min-hyuk's prophetic claim verbatim to the rest of his family, with his dad delighting in his plan to infiltrate himself even more securely into this magnificent house of wondrous architecture. Whether his motives are grounded in genuine affection for Da-hye or due to a vice-like grip of self-belief in his determination to become a university graduate and thus behave accordingly amidst boundless self-esteem aspirations.
Bong, himself, once worked briefly as a tutor at the home of a wealthy family as a young adult, with the germ of an idea for his "Parasite" first latching onto his creative quarters as he contemplates sneaking his friends into the home for a nice pay day too. Like Joe Gillis from Billy Wilder's "Sunset Boulevard" before him, he knows there is room to extract more riches from the initial white lie. The devious set-up is inspired, one which critic A.A. Dowd regards ‘the elaborate machinations of the plot like a heist movie, cutting nimbly back and forth between planning and execution.’ Ki-woo is shown to be more indecisive and anxious than his laid-back sister, but once he attends the job interview with the matriarch of the Park family, her full disclosure that she does not care much for official documents settles his nerves of being exposed as a fraud and elevates him to a headspace of mutual dependency. His family will offer their services while in return the naive woman will bankroll their wages without even contemplating a connection. I suspect it is her deep immersion in a lifestyle of luxury and convenience where she does not have to do things herself that compounds the jittery disposition - to the point that she builds trust in a stranger after one encounter and proceeds to place all her trust in that person as a better judge of character than herself. She is an odd egg, with indirect mentioning a that her husband has violent tendencies, with critic Chang noting how she ‘embodies the family's glossy pretensions... peppering her everyday speech with English affectations‘ even when out of the context of Ki-woo's lesson. Critic Brian Eggert perceptively posits how it is she that coins the moniker 'Kevin' for Ki-woo and recontextualises the nickname ‘in the same way slave owners would rename their servants.’ If indeed she only knew how much further down the food chain Kevin is from the affluent university student he performs.
Effectively it is this possible unraveling of facades that keeps the film's tense atmosphere on a knife-edge as the breezy pacing takes over the first act. Ki-woo transfixes Yeon-kyo with his first tutorial, bar a moment of nervousness when he clenches her daughter's wrist mid-lesson. After chatting a little Yeon-kyo plants the seeds of expansion by exasperatingly complaining that her son is a Basquiat calibre artist, but none of the private tutors could unlock the potential before quitting or, indeed, discreetly being dismissed. The Kims are shrewd and merciless as they set their sights on occupying four top employment slots in the household by soliciting their own scandalous circumstances to displace both the driver and housekeeper. As the Kim family bask in the triumph of their overachievements, Ki-taek displays a moment of profound empathy and underlying guilty conscience to undermine the ruthless streak we have witnessed. He enquires about the precious driver whom he replaced under false pretences instigated by his daughter, and he hopes his youthfulness and prime physical condition will have afforded him with an even better job than the one he lost. Ki-jung scolds her father for demonstrating compassion for the disposable fallen when all their attention should be focused on maintaining this upwards ascent of their family net worth.
The Kims do not want to steal from the Parks aggressively, or indeed somehow take over their great wealth. Their investment is to channel as much money from that house into their home in plain sight, and when you add up the four salaries (for jobs that are being performed to a competent level) they have reached a point where maintaining the status quo is the immediate target. While they regress during Da-song's camping trip when left with a free house, one has to wonder to what degree the integrity of their predecessors remained intact when away from surveillance. The former English tutor had physical intimacy with Da-hye, the previous Benz driver likely abused his position to attract women when not on duty, and the housekeeper had full access to the mansion all day long. What ulterior motive skeletons could be lurking in her closet? Dong-ik praises the talents of the former housekeeper who resigned under concealed circumstances - when in actuality her employment was terminated due to false rumours concocted by the Kims - stating how she was skilled at the job as well as knowing her role and place in the household without overstepping the line. Her only flaw, he amusingly concedes, was a hungry appetite for food consumption.
Like a seasoned professional film director, Bong in tandem with co-screenwriter Jin-won Han methodically storyboards his script to an exactitude and introduces various objects and lines of dialogue that will play a crucial part in the pending turn of narrative twists, even if at the time they seem to be merely throwaway filler inclusions. David Ehrlich announces how "Parasite" follows the general formula of past Bong film's as it is ‘laugh-out-loud funny until the moment its not.’ The tonal shift in genre fluidity hinges upon a secret kept by Moon-gwang and it escalates into a very impressive nailbiting set-piece. From the haunting tracking shot Bong uses to plunge the viewer down into the hidden depths of a double life comparable to the Kims' own deceptions. The fissures between the housekeeper and her harboured stowaway and the Kim family is aggravated by the notion that both sides actually have similar backgrounds, fellow members of ‘the needy’ expresses the ex-housekeeper to her successor. Bong is up-to-date on the global phenomenon of the smartphone necessity, implementing a plot point based on the unexpected events being swiftly recorded in a brilliant sequence where one side wields the send button on their phone like it was a simplistic procedure of pressing a nuclear weapon button to wipe out their direct enemies. I immediately think of Donald Trump caressing his nuclear bomb button and tweeting how it is bigger and better than anyone else's. One standout moment in this suspenseful partition occurs as Bong swaps an interior perspective to an outdoor garden view as chaos ensues indoors, without the diegetic sound, in a battle for control of this critical mobile device.
Even after such a breathtaking portion in the middle section of the film, Bong does not yield to calmness as he heightens the roadblocks inflicted - a further catastrophe to the Kim family confronts them through a slightly more antique version of a telephone, a landline with a call from the homeowners who are on their way home. In another film this might be analysed as a clichéd development, but Bong has cleverly allowed us to predict such an action due to the sudden inclement weather that our outsider occupants have commented on but are too drunk to infer what the conditions might bring. The flooding of the campsite is not the sole decimation caused by monsoon-like rain. I might pick the following segment, which is really a continuation of this longer sequence, as the most engrossing and dramatically potent as Bong continues to demonstrate spectacular restraint and composure in building up the penetrating suspense onscreen. There is suspense on the surface as to whether the returning Parks will uncover the invading Kims out of veiled costumes, but the ultimate edge-of-the-seat thrill is witnessing whether the Kims can remain completely still in their hiding place (Bong places the camera above their motionless faces in a familiar cramped location), particularly once the Park parents discuss the unusual smell in their house, rekindling bad nasal detections from his new driver. Mr. Kim, we learn, has an odour akin to a boiled rag or old radish. While he may veer close to crossing the proverbial line in split-second moments of frustration, anger or forgetfulness (consider his behaviour in the spatially restricted sauna room with Yeon-kyo) without ever going fully beyond his position, this smell crosses the line with the waft going all the way to Mr. Park's seat in the back of the Benz. If this were botany, it would be cross-pollination between classes. Obviously smell cannot be efficiently communicated through the medium of film, but the verbalsm words by Dong-ik imply a feeling of unequivocal disdain for a class on a par with stray vermin, as if the smell is apart of their natural essence rather than seeing it through objective realism as a consequence of the living conditions they are boxed into due to financial constraints. I think of a scene from the Hirokazu Kore-eda film "Nobody Knows" as one of the abandoned children bravely asks for his fair weather friends to call around to play video games, and overhears their reason for no longer hanging out: the fierce smell from their constricted home. Similarly 'the old man smell' is a manifestation of welfare conditions.
Jeffrey Anderson asks us to mull over the momentum gathered in the 2nd and 3rd Acts because it ‘forces viewers to ask hard questions about why the first half had been so enjoyable.’ I thrived in the cunning cons orchestrated by the Kims, and Bong allows viewers the option to revel in the characters' shades both good and bad, as James Berardinelli acknowledges that a ‘conventional movie might cast them as villains.’ Once the big reveal is exposed, suddenly there is a competition for audience respect, because the housekeeper's own rough life combined with her own airtight performance role is deserving of rank alongside the Kim family charade of veiled respectability. If we flip our perspective we can understand why certain characters choose to do reckless actions during the film's climatic apogee in the heat of the moment. I would not vilify someone for trampling over another person to save a relative, for it is human nature to look out for our own in a fight or flight scenario. Fundamentally, the climax reiterates the notion that the parasitic qualities of capitalism end up dividing people with fatalistic shark tank carnage in the quest for monetary growth. Those in the higher classes are normally immune to the destruction besides minor inconvenience, for example notice where the Kim family resides the morning after the flood as the Park family plot a plan B. In the case of Da-song's extravagant birthday gathering, which is attended by all four of the Kim clan, it is the venue for the elites to once find themselves caught in the crossfire. While that is unfortunate, the Kim plight is poignant too because they were summoned to congregate at the venue so the class above them could take advantage of them as commodities. It is justified, if not quantified, by their employers with the fact they are getting paid extra.
Some might not be overwhelmingly onboard with the bookended denouement, which incorporates a lot of voice-over and could be designated as unnecessary. "Parasite" flirts with the idea of a somewhat happy ending, but a Hollywood flight of fantasy cannot surmount the immovable conundrum of the persisting socioeconomic chasm. The Kim family discuss how having a lot of money makes people nice, because money is an iron for wrinkles. There is a moment in the film in which the Kims have infiltrated the house and act like they are the current benefactors of the architect's masterpiece, getting indulgently drunk in the spacious living area. One of the neglected dogs saunters over craving some affection, and is cruely shoved away from the area by Choong-sook with chutzpah. When faced with a trickier dilemma she has no qualms kicking someone down a stairway. In richness or poorness, what a lovely lady is revealed behind the prefixes. When Mr. Kim, dangerously treading along the line of class dynamics, poses his new employer with the question of whether he loves his wife, Mr. Park is taken aback by the question before laughing. When Ki-woo asks his friend/mentor Min-hyuk if he loves Da-hye, another laughter reaction occurs. Love, for those heading upwards on the escalator of capitalism, is a by-product of their commanding capital influence. For those on the adjacent downwards escalator with no property rights, love is all that keeps them from jumping off the mechanism and surviving in their darkened corner of capitalist insignificance. Bong Joon-ho has directed other films that engage with the inequities present in class divisions, like "Snowpiercer" (2013), but whereas that film took a horizontal vantage point between class disparity, his "Parasite" is firmly an allegory of vertical lines. The rock might bring comfort but it weighs you down trying to climb that steep perpendicular road out of the nadir. As Anderson states in his review, ‘reaching the high ground is desirable, but those occupying the low ground aren't going anywhere.’ Outside of a pipe dream, their only way to afford enjoying such a palaceous house is to tactfully move through it with surgical precision, dodging those invisible lines.
For all the titles in my great movies collection: letterboxd.com/davidwallace/list/great-movies-collection/
191. Yorum: Perhaps the greatest aspect of this masterpiece, aside from the immense writing, symbolism, performances and gripping plot, is Joon-ho’s visual storytelling. Little details like when the family rushes back to their household during the flood, and the camera pans out to show the family descending down flights of stairs. Or the end shot of the camera transitioning from the window downwards, symbolizing us going back to their reality. Showing how near impossible it is to escape the system constantly dragging you down. You could write a whole dissertation on the visual language alone. Probably his magnum opus as far as tackling classism, and the dichotomy between the elite and the less fortunate. An experience that keeps giving on each rewatch.
192. Yorum: maybe the real parasite was the rich people we killed along the way ❤
193. Yorum: The lower-right region of a painting is called the 'schizophrenia zone'.
It was an intense rewatch. The film was so expertly crafted that it was almost like a magician explaining his tricks, as I watched the movie play again. A lot of the time, the situations seemed exaggerated to the point of hyperrealism.
The slo-mo scene where the water is being poured on the urinator seemed oddly majestic. In the Q&A, Bong Joon Ho called his cinematographer a "nearly crazy guy".
This time, I was struck by the absolutely shame Mr. Kim (Kang-ho Song) felt after Mr. Park (Park Dong-ik) despised him for his "smell". Just to see Mr. Kim's face really hit home this time. Also Mr. Park took actions to save his family members while leaving Jessica / Ki-jung (So-dam Park) in the proverbial gutter.
It seems Bong took elements of Jordan Peele's Get Out, Luis Buñuel's Ensayo de un crimen/The Criminal Life of Archibaldo de la Cruz, and Claude Chabrol's La Cérémonie and sliced up the elements in a blender, serving a delicious recipe. The scholar's rock wasn't exactly like the music box in the Archibaldo de la Cruz film, but it felt like a certain good luck charm until it didn't.
It got a standing ovation at the WGA theater and I suspect it'll get a whole lot more.
Q&A with Rian Johnson (moderator), Bong Joon Ho (director), Sharon Choi (interpreter)
Vegan alert:
-Mr. Kim flicks a bug.
-The housekeeper offers Mrs. Park honey
-Reference to a chicken plate
-Meat at the buffet
-Ham on pizza
-Mr. Park asks for a recommendation for a place that serves bruised ribs
-Cutting meat with scissors
-Japanese crabsticks for Foo Foo (the dog)
-Mrs. Kim pushes a dog
-Eggs in the fridge
-Ki-jung / Jessica accidentally eats dog jerky treats
-Sirloin is added to the ram-don
-Salmon steaks at the party
-Whole crawfish at the market
-Dog eating meat at the party
-Mr. Kim eats canned salmon.
-Reference to German sausage
Vegan points:
-The housekeeper always serves the children fruit plates
-Mrs. Kim peels veggies
twitter.com/AlliCinema/status/1218691732579090432
194. Yorum: ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
195. Yorum: 
196. Yorum: Hits from the Boooong 🪨
Hits from the Boooong 🍑
Hits from the Boooong ⛺
Hits from the Boooong 🔪
197. Yorum: She's rich, but still nice.
Not "rich, but still nice." She's nice because she's rich. Hell, if I had all this money. I'd be nice, too!
This movie is explosive. Now and forever.
198. Yorum: modeling the plans for my next birthday party after this movie
199. Yorum: with my third viewing i feel like i was analysing it more than just enjoying it. there’s so much i never noticed before, but i think the thing that made me the most upset was the fact that the tent “from the US” was so much more durable than the homes of the working class koreans.
200. Yorum: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
So beautiful yet so tragically layered behind economic inequality and the extremes that are a result of contemporary society. Breaking cultural barriers through showcasing the loss of humanity that comes with a social rise. That ending will always do it for me.
201. Yorum: a dog-eat-dog portrait drawn by those with all the leashes on their hand; true freedom is impossible, and a bleak cinematic worldview is sharpened not as a tool to denounce the rich, but as a general half-hearted lament about the world at play. for all the idiosyncrasies every member of the rich park family shows, there's an unwavering feeling that bong joon-ho doesn't wish to name names, doesn't wish to implicate anyone in particular about the sort of people he's "critiquing" in the movie. the entire rich-poor class consciousness farce is a binary structure that he (and i hate to say this because i've always known him to be quite the daring wunderkind*) hides behind. i've had my thoughts about bong as a filmmaker, someone who's certainly interested in the evils of capitalism and class structures, and with my recent rewatch of the much-revered Parasite, i feel as if i've gained a clearer mind on what his movies mean to me.
his films from his debut to probably mother... they're often quite good, sometimes above and beyond, mixing korean nostalgia and ennui with piercing gazes at governmental dysfunctionality and incorporating bong's love for cinema (in particular the carefully-calculated shots and edits of alfred hitchcock and brian de palma) into works of passion. from snowpiercer onwards, i've always taken his works as too muddled in american backers' interests and marketability; the bong of 2003 would've made parasite a much more... a much less frightened picture. this is a movie afraid of its own potential implications, too afraid to mention capitalism by name and show real contempt for something... anything, really, other than the working-class "miscreants" that the movie centres on. with the vague brushstrokes that are the park family (rich family: one seemingly scheming, one in la-la land, one a prey and one a cultural appropriator), our protagonists follow suit and are simply tools for bong's grand scheme. i'm really not one to care about characters and how "real" they are; i do find it hard to enjoy whenever characters are conceived and portrayed with such lack of ambition and compassion; bong's game is the main character here, not the characters... and i'm mighty sorry to say this, but his game is a bore. the rich are rich because they are rich, and the poor are poor because they're the poor. all the behavioural aggressions, abuses and discriminations are simply things that follow with the state of things. change is brought on only by the final kill of the movie, an act of desperation out of familial bonds, but — and this is when you can stop reading the review if my view is so violently different from yours — this feels to me like bong's best option to make the audience feel for the kim family in killing the head honcho of the parks without implying class consciousness or class revolt. the entire movie actively wishes to be seen as anti-capitalist, but it's actually the most capitalist-adjacent movie of the entire 92nd academy awards best picture roster.**
ki-woo's final vow to earn enough money to buy the accursed house and free his father from having to hide from the world takes the cake; bong's film resigns to the worldview that capitalism is a template, and that deviations are allowed but not meant to break the entire system. parasite manages to have fun within its shallow borders, but do i really find the filmmaking so compelling enough that i turn my eyes away from all the personal misgivings? not so. bong's filmmaking is the sort to be content at "enhancing the narrative" (something i don't find interesting; give me filmmaking that completely overwhelmes the story and becomes its own entity!), and it's particularly egregious in parasite. i personally found very few shots actively good; others were serviceable, along with the editing. add to that the didactic dialogue straight out of a /pol/ user's three-paragraph post on capitalism and socialism's tug-of-war dynamic, and this is a recipe for a rewatch more actively painful than boring.
to this, i bring another opinion of mine: does bong joon-ho really believe in anything other than the vaguest thoughts on how the rich are evil and humanity is inherently evil as well? it's a very rare instance where i can practically smell the desire to be sold / seen as an intellectual film, most unlike bong pre-2013 but very much like bong post-2013. snowpiercer was the rot that set in, with his taste for american audiences becoming too strong. compared to something like memories of murder — a film that actively, viscerally tore down korean hierarchy (itself heavily based on american archetypes) and police procedurals / culture — parasite is beyond a dilution. it's a betrayal of what once was bong joon-ho. he's too afraid to make the final connection between arsehole millionaires and scheming, angry, dirty common folk. he's too afraid to cry wolf a final time because of all the money he'd lose from the global crowd.
very fitting that this won best picture for the oscars, don't you think?

*pre-2019... no, who am i kidding, pre-2013.
**my future review for jojo rabbit may show more dislike from me than parasite... but that's a story for another day.
202. Yorum: Just watched the B&W version and let’s just say that there’s something more unsettling in this than its colored counterpart. Its impact is still relevant and impactful as ever in monochrome, nonetheless. 
READ MY FULL REVIEW HERE. 
203. Yorum: sicko mode Howards End
204. Yorum: Parasite is, in no uncertain terms, fucking great. It's funny and suspenseful and deeply powerful. It's genuinely creative and unpredictable in a way that we don't often see, and it has an acute understanding of the physical and emotional boundaries of social class. More than anything, it is at its core concerned with human beings, specifically families, and the ways in which they navigate, construct, and even break down those boundaries. Empathy is of the utmost importance in this story.
It's quite remarkable how Bong Joon Ho manages to walk a tightrope of tonal shifts so effortlessly that they don't even really feel like shifts - the film is uniquely its own thing, and many things at once. The story flows pretty seamlessly, moving from humanist family drama to biting social satire to surreal horror. There are twists and turns galore, but rarely does the film ever feel convoluted - there is a clear and forceful guiding purpose behind the camera, and it shows. The dialogue is incredibly smart and the entire ensemble is brilliant, but the most beautiful work is perhaps done through the visual language. Every single frame tells you exactly what you need to know while pulling you in to look for more - the stunning production design behind the sleek, clinical nature of one home and the cramped, gritty nature of the other sets up a playpen of contrasts for the actors and the script.
These contrasts seem easy to delineate, but Bong makes the entire situation as difficult on himself as humanly possible (in a good way, of course). It would be easy to lean into a singular message or a particular genre or a specific tone, but Bong wants his film to be like his characters: messy, complicated, compelling in its own, unique way. It's a controlled madness driven by both technical mastery and an aching pain regarding the inequalities that drive our perspectives, actions, relationships with others, and emotional well beings. It's genuinely a wonderful film, and you're not going to see much else like it out there.
GRADE: A-
205. Yorum: A masterwork of first-rate storytelling that presents distinguished filmmaker Bong Joon-ho at the apex of his craft, Parasite is a tale of two families at extreme ends of class spectrum and the chain of events that are set into motion when their paths collide. Crafted with vigour & told with confidence, the film offers a cleverly layered & defiantly eclectic extravaganza that will have you laughing at one moment & then questioning that laughter the next.
By playing with contrasting elements of different genres and introducing sudden mood shifts, Bong Joon-ho takes the viewers through a whirlwind of emotions and delivers a high-quality cinema that brims with his own brand of storytelling yet will manage to resonate with most, if not all. The technical elements work in tandem with the script to further uplift the viewing experience while rich, compelling inputs from the entire cast only solidifies our investment in this roller-coaster ride.
A biting take on the socio-economic state of modern South Korea that also takes a jab at late capitalism, this black comedy thriller benefits a lot from its gripping premise, full-fledged characters, unpredictable twists & excellent performances to finish as possibly the best all-round film of 2019. A hilarious, heartbreaking, tragic, suspenseful, bleak, thrilling, urgent & timely essay on the class divide, Parasite is perhaps Bong Joon-ho's most mature & accomplished work to date. Go in as blind as possible.
206. Yorum: once you overcome the one-inch tall barrier of subtitles you will be introduced to so many more amazing films period nothing left to say
207. Yorum: The Bong Touch (TM) = Laugh out loud comedy + recoiling in horror at man's indecency to man + awe at the cinematic dance, the inspired choreography between camera, actors and editing.
The film of the year and probably the film of the year. Discussed on Filmspotting #749.
208. Yorum: 
209. Yorum: scontent-lax3-1.cdninstagram.com/v/t50.2886-16/73423343_603224030211455_8520986493186772348_n.mp4?_nc_ht=scontent-lax3-1.cdninstagram.com&_nc_cat=111&oe=5DA43C14&oh=49d1c7b5729fad4761c8f19c57d02fbf
210. Yorum: 🏆96%
2019 list - Click HERE
Video review - Patreon exclusive until🔜
Huge S/O to a friend (on Patreon) for hooking me up with a screener for this film. I wanted to see it so bad when I started to see the buzz but knew there was nothing I could do; thankfully, he swooped into my DM’s and gave me the chance to witness something that I haven’t stopped thinking about since the second it ended. There is so much to soak in with this film and, still, much more to unpack. Joon Ho Bong is a obviously a talented director but he has never been one to live up to the hype (for me) until now.
Parasite is clearly his best work and it’s an experience that tackles almost every element of what makes a movie great. Since it has yet to be released and it’s such a surprising experience; I don’t want to get into what works so well about the plot. Upon rewatch (after release) I will return with a full spoiler review because it’s a movie that requires this. I will say that while the first few scenes were well-crafted; I was wondering what all of the hype was about. It’s a film that looks at division of class and begins with a poor family who is just trying to do whatever they can to “make it.”
We’re already conflicted as an audience because we feel sorrow; yet we know what they are doing here is wrong (or at least how they are going about it). Once they begin to infiltrate this rich family’s home, the madness begins. It goes from interesting, to engaging, to intriguing, to pure “edge of your seat” thrilling. As soon as, what I will refer to as, “the event” happened; I sat back and found an entirely new appreciation for what this movie was doing. It somehow juggles all of these elements that could have easily compromised the story.
I would normally critique a film like this and say “well it’s just too much;” but I always preach the fact that it is all about the execution. If all of these plot points are executed properly, a movie can easily get away with them. It’s the perfect balance of almost everything with Parasite. Tone, pacing, character depth, narrative structure, intensity, and so many more elements are all handled to perfection. The family dynamic is interesting enough but when they begin to mix with this upper class family; the story begins to reveal itself.
I normally don’t praise films for trying to shoehorn in social commentary but it’s the opposite case here. The social commentary almost eclipses the story and it sends a powerful message to everyone. The way that it handles the politics of class, but manages to inject this sense of dark humor, is almost the perfect balance. Just when you think you realize what you’re in for, the film shifts and continues to showcase the best of “what cinema should be” until the final frame. The ending had me worried for a second but it was captivating. Overall, Parasite may not end up being my favorite movie of 2019 but it should be in the discussion for the the best movie of 2019. It hasn’t left my brain since.
🔙Ready or Not
🔜Angel Has Fallen
211. Yorum: Me when Lee Sun-kyun showed up in the film: looking for a vulgar and sexy man to meet. 
[Context to those who didn’t get: there was this phishing sex bot who spammed a lot of users with likes on reviews, but it also gave Parasite a five-star rating and wrote a review same as the line above. It’s hilarious and creepy at the same time, but at least the bot has taste. I hope Letterboxd has fixed the issue.]
READ MY FULL REVIEW HERE. 
212. Yorum: It may take a while to get going, but once it does, Parasite gives you a witty yet morbid story with many thematic layers to uncover, a tonne of unpredictable twists, great direction of camera shots and plenty to chew on when it comes to the poor and rich’s relationship with the capitalist system that governs their entire lives. No individual here is the ‘parasite’. The world itself is.
213. Yorum: Grade: MASTERPIECE (5 out of 5)
I am in awe of what Bong Joon-ho has accomplished with Parasite. After two subpar films (that’s right, I didn’t really enjoy Snowpiercer nor Okja), I feared Bong had lost his mojo, especially after three fantastic South Korean films.
Parasite removes all doubt and makes me ashamed I doubted Bong for a moment. The praise and the hype might seem like hyperbole, but I assure you they are not. Parasite is not only one of the best South Korean films ever made, but one of the best films ever made anywhere. The amount of passion, talent, and creativity in this movie threatens to tear the screen apart.
🏆Movie of the year🏆
214. Yorum: i’ve finally done it! i’ve finally watched parasite! why has it took me so long? who knows…but i’ve done it! 
i feel like i’m in the with the cool kids now lol.
soooooo glad i was able to avoid spoilers for so many years. this is a movie that you wanna watch with no prior knowledge of what’s going to happen…cause some crazy, unexpected shit goes down!

if you’re already terrified of basements, don’t watch this haha

p.s. i have a sinking feeling that he’s gonna be down there forever…
215. Yorum: "Do you know what kind of plan never fails?"
"No plan, no plan at all"
This blunt explanation tells you so much about people like the Kims as Ki-taek’s answer in some way helps to cast a light upon his family's impecunious shadow. His “no plan” reasoning could also be seen as a reductive, shallow or even shortsighted way of looking at life. "No plan" denotes the idea of leading a life without goals, to be adrift and to live only for today without thinking of tomorrow. Nonetheless, Ki-taek’s candid response to his own question enables the audience to slip inside the mind of the impoverished working class to understand how tough it is for them to live through a day, let alone having a thing called "future". It cannot be helped that they don’t have a broader view of looking at the world, in view of the fact that life has never given them the chance to realize what they can one day be or to look up at the tiny glimpse of light shining above their cavern.
216. Yorum: Publicado na revista Veja em 13/11/2019
Isto é uma obra-prima
Engraçado, cortante e devastador: o formidável sul-coreano Parasita, do diretor Joon-ho Bong, é candidato sério ao Oscar – aquele tipo de cinema tão superlativo que nada afeta sua tradução
Pânico no lar: a vizinha de cima colocou senha no wi-fi, e agora Ki-taek Kim (Kang-ho Song), sua mulher e seu casal de filhos estão sem internet e sem WhatsApp. Andando pelo apartamento meio enterrado no subsolo com os celulares erguidos acima da cabeça, à procura de sinal, Ki-woo (Woo-sik Choi) e sua irmã Ki-jung (So-dam Park) afinal respiram aliviados: se ficarem bem no canto do banheiro, encarapitados no vaso sanitário, eles conseguem acesso a uma rede aberta. Não é preciso ser perspicaz para deduzir que há tempo a família Kim vai muito mal de grana. Ki-taek primeiro faliu, depois perdeu o emprego. Sua mulher, Chung-sook (Hye-jin Jang), também não tem trabalho, e o antigo sonho de ser uma atleta de categoria olímpica virou uma foto desbotada na estante. Os filhos são preparados e inteligentes, mas suas tentativas de cursar a universidade fracassaram. Unidos e expansivos, eles brincam e conversam – e enxotam o bêbado que todo dia teima em urinar bem na sua janela – enquanto dobram caixas de pizza a fim de ter alguma renda. Quando um agente de dedetização começa a fumigar a rua, Ki-taek não deixa fecharem essa mesma janela: quer aproveitar a química que vem de graça para, quem sabe, dar jeito nas baratas que infestam sua casa. Mulher e filhos tossem, mas Ki-taek nem liga; é a maneira sutil pela qual o diretor Joon-ho Bong introduz a ideia que vai constituir a espinha dorsal de Parasita (Gisaengchung, Coreia do Sul, 2019) – a de que a necessidade é a mãe não só da invenção, mas sobretudo da adaptação. E os Kim vão se reinventar e se adaptar com desenvoltura inata ao longo deste filme formidável, primeiro engraçado, depois cortante e por fim devastador, vencedor do Festival de Cannes deste ano. É provável que não perca dinheiro quem apostar que Parasita vai chegar forte ao Oscar de 2020 – não apenas na categoria de filme estrangeiro, mas também nas disputas de ator (Kang-ho Song, que trabalha com Bong desde 2003, é uma potência), de diretor e do prêmio principal.
A virada, aqui, aparece na forma de um bico para Ki-woo: o rapaz arruma de dar aulas de inglês a uma garota muito rica, que mora com os pais e o irmão caçula numa espetacular casa modernista de um bairro impecavelmente limpo de Seul. Também na residência dos Park uma janela domina a dinâmica familiar – mas esta aqui é uma imensa extensão de vidro cristalino que, mais do que separar, une o jardim belíssimo aos interiores vastos, que a eficiente governanta mantém imaculados. Como seria viver assim?, imagina Ki-woo, que, rebatizado Kevin para fins profissionais, é um sucesso como professor e de imediato conquista não apenas a aluna como também a mãe dela, a gentil e algo simples Yeon-kyo (Yeo-jeong Jo). Entre as muitas provas da ingenuidade de Yeon-kyo está a crença de que seu filho pequeno é um gênio da pintura. Ora, a irmã de Ki-woo pretendia fazer faculdade de artes. Ele a apresenta como uma conhecida distante chamada Jessica – e ela passa a dar aulas ao menino e, de quebra, bota-o na linha. E se houvesse alguma maneira de arrumar emprego na casa dos Park para o pai, e quem sabe até para a mãe?, indagam-se “Kevin” e “Jessica”. À medida que a família pobre se insinua no dia a dia da família rica, Parasita vai mudando de tessitura; a certa altura, os acontecimentos se precipitam (uma tempestade, aliás, tem papel crucial), levando os personagens de roldão e, sempre, pegando o espectador desprevenido.
No fervilhante cinema sul-coreano, que se sai com uma surpresa atrás da outra, Joon-ho Bong ainda assim ocupa lugar de destaque. O diretor filma com imagens de uma textura tão rica, enquadramentos tão instigantes e inesperados e movimentos de uma fluidez tão perfeita que só o abalo estético que ele provoca já seria suficiente para justificar o lugar que ocupa hoje no panorama mundial. Mas Bong é também um cineasta de grande empuxo emocional e de ideias fortes. É autor de dois filmes que obrigatoriamente vêm no topo de qualquer lista de melhores – Memórias de um Assassino (2003) e O Hospedeiro (2006) –, de um terceiro, Mother (2009), que não raro acha vaga no ranking também, e de dois longas de produção internacional, Expresso do Amanhã (2013) e Okja (2017), feitos com apetite voraz para o experimentalismo. De volta à produção natal, porém, com Parasita ele supera sua própria marca e a de seus compatriotas em um aspecto marcante: a facilidade de comunicação.
O cinema sul-coreano em geral ignora as compartimentalizações ocidentais de gênero; é comédia, suspense, drama e melodrama (e às vezes fantasia, ou ficção científica) não propriamente ao mesmo tempo mas, melhor dizendo, em sequência – curvas perigosas e mudanças de marcha abruptas são sua especialidade. Aliada à criatividade para temas e tratamentos, essa exuberância fez muito por ajudar os filmes sul-coreanos a romper barreiras de cultura e idioma nas duas últimas décadas, em que a produção floresceu impulsionada não só por Bong, mas também por Chan-wook Park (de Oldboy), Ki-duk Kim (Pietà), Chang-dong Lee (Peppermint Candy) Hoon-jung Park (Nova Ordem) e Sang-soo Hong (Na Praia à Noite Sozinha), entre outros diretores. Parasita trabalha esses fundamentos em um patamar alto: seu senso de humor acessível, a engenhosidade com que arma o cenário e a sua fluência visual e narrativa aliciam a plateiam, jogam-na dentro da história, fazem com que ela se sinta confortável – e então Joon-ho Bong puxa as navalhas que vinha escondendo e desfere golpe atrás de golpe. É cinema no seu melhor: tão perfeito e envolvente que nada pode fazer com que ele se perca na tradução.

SUCESSOS SEM FRONTEIRAS
Alguns exemplos de filmes capazes de conversar com o espectador
de qualquer lugar – e em qualquer idioma
O TIGRE E O DRAGÃO (2000), do taiwanês Ang Lee, emplacou quatro Oscar e mais de 200 milhões de dólares com sua fantasia poética de artes marciais
A SEPARAÇÃO (2011) venceu o Oscar de filme estrangeiro, reafirmou o ilustre cinema iraniano e internacionalizou a carreira do diretor Asghar Farhadi
ROMA (2018), do mexicano Alfonso Cuarón, venceu três de suas dez indicações ao Oscar e rompeu uma barreira histórica entre o streaming e o cinema
217. Yorum: 63/100
Disclaimer: Snowpiercer improved significantly for me on second viewing, leaping from roughly the same "pretty good" rating to a near-miss for my top 10 list. (It's still #11.) Don't anticipate that happening with Parasite, though, mostly because Bong grounds this tale of class warfare more firmly in the real world, even as the tone remains antic verging on absurdist. It makes a difference: Plausibility seems irrelevant in the face of aggressively tiered train compartments and a way-over-the-top Tilda Swinton, whereas here my enjoyment of act one's elaborate machinations (which amount to Bong's version of a heist movie) was slightly undermined by my wondering how a family this diabolically clever and resourceful ever wound up living as they were in the first place. Lotta latent abilities emerging all of a sudden, I guess. Still a lot of fun, and act two's big twist (this film has the cleanest Syd Field structure in recent memory) made me think that Bong was saying something truly bold and incisive about senseless infighting among the bottom 20%. What happens at the climax doesn't really fit that interpretation, though, and by the final scene it's quite clear that we're looking at a familiar binary lament that's unequivocally allied with the have-nots. Nothing wrong with that per se, but it worked better for me in Snowpiercer's more extravagantly ludicrous context; Parasite is a pretty straightforward crowdpleaser (albeit tempered with occasional ugliness), and while I laughed in all the right spots, I never really felt shaken or stirred. Again, though, my initial response to Snowpiercer was similarly muted, so it's possible that I'll eventually join the ecstatic consensus. Step one will be accepting that the impromptu birthday party doesn't play out in the very specific way that I'd expected/desired. Will elaborate when I inevitably watch it again.
218. Yorum: For the first year of my lifetime, the best picture winner was actually the best film of the year. They’ll blow it next year.
219. Yorum: My socks have been blown off. 
My mind can’t handle this. I can’t wait to watch it again. Everything about this film is just mad. 
Definitely worth watching on the big screen!
220. Yorum: a masterclass in every possible way
221. Yorum: 
222. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho, the master of cinematic metaphor, delivers a film of and for our times with Parasite. It is a masterwork, the first film in years that is obviously a future classic after just one watch. It is tense and unexpected, but beyond satisfying in payoff. As a satire, Parasite is about the interactions of the classes. The comedy is perfectly balanced with a nuance of how class functions in the era of consumerism within service sector countries. Despite its huge international success, Parasite feels so beautifully uncompromised in its Korean flavour, with a violent genre-crossing streak that Hollywood rarely aims for and Korean cinema excels in. Parasite is not Bong Joon-ho's best film, nor the one that most captures my heart. But it is just wonderful, and the best kind of cinema.
2019 Ranked
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
Academy Award for Best Picture Nominees Ranked
BAFTA for Best Film Nominees Ranked
Palme d'Or Winners Ranked
My Top Films of the 2010s
223. Yorum: i know for a fact that i could build their house on minecraft
224. Yorum: and that's HISTORY
225. Yorum: James said he wanted to show me this movie today "even though it's not a birthday movie" when there's CLEARLY a birthday party scene? How did he forgor
Anyway it was really really good
226. Yorum: 🏆96%
2019 list - Click HERE
“Parasite” is a movie unlike any other. Watching it for a second time (finally), but first time in a theater, was exactly what I needed to cement it into my 2019 best of the best. It would have been nice to go back and watch all of the movies in my top 10 (just to be sure), but for some reason, this one has been the most difficult out of the bunch to place. It’s clearly one of the best quality-wise, I’m just not for sure if I can keep it in my top five in terms of “my favorites.” It’s easily up there because of the filmmaking alone, but I do have one or two nitpicks within the third act. Otherwise, there isn’t much bad to say about “Parasite.” It’s unlike any other story structure in 2019. The pacing here is so smooth, and my second watch answered so many mini-questions I had. The detail here is ridiculous (in the best way), and the cinematography shines.
The character development is the definition of perfection, and it’s easily the best script of the year. Even if it doesn’t get to the top of my list, it may be the one I’m rooting for to win Beat Picture. Bong Joon Ho deserves this award. He has delivered a film that breaks conventions and shows divide in class unlike any movie before it. This South Korean extravaganza has aged beautifully since watching it almost four months ago for the first time. My wife had some questions about everything, but once I explained, she seemed to really enjoy the experience. Overall, “Parasite” is “Parasite.” There is no comparison to be made. It may not be a movie being looked at for the performances, but they were the standout this time around. The cast is astounding, but the direction is the standout. Give him all of the trophies.
🔙The Two Popes
🔜Elf♻️
227. Yorum: One of the most well-deserved Oscars ever, this is such a brilliant piece of art.
228. Yorum: ..-. ..- -.-. -.-
229. Yorum: “All you’ll have to do... is walk up the stairs.”
not even sure if it should be legal for films to go this fucking hard
230. Yorum: parasite isn’t a bong joon-ho film, he was a vessel for God on that set. Why he chose him I don’t know but it’s not my place to question it
231. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned”
232. Yorum: Each of us have to learn how to take care of themselves, that's the big lesson from this movie.If we don't do that, then we became parasites
233. Yorum: trying to live one more day in spite of everything. the losses that capitalism leaves us with are unfathomable, often to the extent that we lose hope. we are broken down, numbed to the horrors of systematic state oppression and class divide. even now, after all the trauma that these people go through, there is still that desperation for the aesthetic of richness, the false images of a life positioned above suffering. a deeply heartbreaking movie. excited to cover this in full next month for a publication I’ve never worked for before.
234. Yorum: 
235. Yorum: Not what I was expecting at all but they ate, this movie fucking slaps.
236. Yorum: Discussed HERE
Bong's use of landscape, architecture, and space is simply arresting. My favorite Palme D'or winner since Blue is the Warmest Color. Feels like an instant classic that stands all on it's own. Destined to age well, and be loved by many. Likely the first sure thing to win an Oscar I've come across. I can't think of another foreign film on my radar that's likely to come close. We should probably include him more often when we talk about the best directors of this era, ie. Fincher, Nolan, Anderson(both), del Toro, etc. Can't wait to rewatch.
237. Yorum: Wow I’ve seen every best picture winner :)
238. Yorum: Ki-taek: "They are rich but still nice."
Chung-sook: "They are nice because they are rich. If I had all this I would be kinder."
The Parks' house, said in the film to be designed by a fictional architect named Namgoong Hyeonja, was a set completely built from scratch. Of all the awards and nominations, Bong Joon-ho was most happy with the Best Editing and Best Production Design Oscar nominations for the film as he felt the great technicians and masters working in the Korean film industry were getting recognized for the first time. These were the only Oscar categories that the film was nominated for but didn't win. I finally got around to watching the most viewed movie on Letterboxd, and it did not disappoint!
🏆 Awards: 306 wins (4 Oscars) & 264 nominations
⏳ Runtime: 128 minutes (minus credits)
🎥 Total Shots: 753
⏱️ Average Shot Length: 10.2 seconds
Requested by Jace 💬
Recommend a movie here 👇
Request a Review 🎥
Completed Requested Reviews ✅
Foreign/International Films Ranked 🥇🥈🥉
2019 Movies Ranked 🥇🥈🥉
239. Yorum: They did it, baby!!! INFILTRATION COMPLETED - They got the golden rocks!!!!!!!!!
240. Yorum: Everybody please stand for the national anthem
*hand on heart*
Jessica, only child, Illinois, Chicago, Classmate Kim Jin-mo, he’s your cousin.
241. Yorum: what’s better than watching parasite? watching parasite while lucas hedges sits on the edge of his seat two rows in front of you while gently playing with his hands the entire time.
242. Yorum: im ngl i’m currently typing this in the austin house basement too Lol!
243. Yorum: Not only my favorite of TIFF, but my favorite for the year. This was an immensely enjoyable ride from start to finish. It's got comedy, it's got mystery, its got thrills, and its got heart.
Everyone should watch this, but try to go in as blind as possible.
While this film is Korean, it deals with issues of class so universally understood that it fully seems to transcend language and cultural barriers. Bong has always been a strong film maker but I truly believe this is his masterpiece and I'm so happy the film is seeing the recognition it deserves.
VIDEO: youtu.be/v2k6qKStfSU
244. Yorum: What. A. Masterpiece.
Not only one of the best films ever made, but one of the best films to watch with friends who have no idea what the f*ck they’re getting into... watched it with a few cast and crew members on a project I was on who just knew it was a “crazy” film... by the end, one of them just sat there, mouth open in complete shock, and scarred for life.
245. Yorum: all i’m saying is if this doesn’t win best picture on sunday i’m sure theres a rich academy member whose child needs tutoring and i am for hire
246. Yorum: brilliant, captivating, creative, incredible. this film was a complete masterpiece and I am so happy I was able to see it unfold on the big screen. bong joon-ho creates a world so mesmerizing, you just have to witness it yourself. going in completely blind with no expectations looming over my shoulder was such a good idea and I am just so lost in awe for this wonderful creation. best film of the year, mark my words!!!
247. Yorum: 
248. Yorum: racing hearts soaked in grass stains and peach fuzz; parasite moulds pulses to blood stains to sticky, burning hot sauce sachets. sunlight sweats across floorboards and oozes to black and back. expect to laugh, then gasp, then feel your veins ignite. a film that felt my soul beat in my chest, reached inside, twisted my mind to pools of reddish honey, and stole a part of me for itself.
249. Yorum: o problema de cineasta é querer passar mensagem. filme não tem que ter mensagem. faz só o filme
250. Yorum: Wild that bong joon-ho listened to aristocrat by poppy and turned it into a film
251. Yorum: For some reason this movie didn't find its way into my town's theatre, so I had to wait until a trip to munich finally made it possible to do what was long overdue. Aaaaaaaaaaaaaand............ Bing Bang Bong...that was a quick watch. Wanted to immediatly see it again, which wasn't possible for financial and time porpuses. So here's a little poem/rap, that's hopefully ambiguous enough to not give anything away:
Yummy yummy, pizzahut,
Give me the job you fucking slut,
I am the devil; I don't care,
I'll cut your thing off, if you dare.
Jinxed me up, wifi down,
Get your sister as the clown,
Get your father, get your mum,
Hold your mango up and run.
This is madness, what we see,
watch her jerk him tenderly,
what if any of us need to pee?
Highly metaphorically.
252. Yorum: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
Bong Joon-Ho can really do no wrong. I can’t describe how good this was without spoiling it. But just know - totally worth your time. Don’t let the subtitles scare you away. This is an Oscar-caliber film. See It. 
Added to: Bong Joon-Ho Ranked, 2019 Ranked, Best of the Decade
253. Yorum: (Black and White Version)
It was awesome to experience this landmark Academy Awards Best Picture Winner once again on Criterion.
"What are you, a family of charlatans?"
I would not say watching Parasite in black and white adds all that much to the film. But it was interesting to learn that Bong Joon Ho wanted to shoot the film so it would hold up without color, as a tribute to some of the great Directors of world cinema that made masterpieces in both formats.
(Rewatch Observations)
- I remembered the second half of the movie following the twist being the part where this story really took off, but this time I got so much more out of seeing how opportunistic the family is right from the start
- As someone who sometimes struggles to keep up with subtitles, I found it remarkable how easy it was to keep up with the fast and furious subtitles throughout this film
- Parasite holds up beautifully on a rewatch as you get to notice all the little hints of where the story is going. The fast pacing and complexities of the story had my mind racing in some different directions, which made this watch feel like a fresh new experience
- Spoiler: This time I noticed the father has his violent reaction at the end not because the owner of the home smelled him, but because he covers his nose as a result of getting a whiff of the guy who had been living in his basement. And this idea of people of the lower class being distinguishable to the rich as a result of how they smell, is what sets the father off ... and masterfully ties into the film's overall theme of class division. (The rich living on top vs those living off the rich in the basement)
- Also I thought it was interesting how the father asks the man of the house if he really loved his wife. Since technically he is wealthy enough where he does not have to depend on her, while the father's family must depend on each other in order for them to survive
Parasite is simply brilliant and so deserving of all the accolades it achieved, and I already can't wait to check it out again in color. What Bong Joon Ho film should I check out next? I am really curious about seeing 'Mother' and 'Memories of Murder'.
Thanks for reading.
Happy movie watching ... Skål!
254. Yorum: Catching the Oscar runner ups with my mom as we head towards the Academy Awards.
Still one of the top 3 of last year. The humor is great, the script is brilliant and the direction is incredible (the staging alone is simple yet awe inspiring).
Not sure if it would win Best Picture, but Foreign (or International as they call it now) is a lock. And Bong is right, there's a whole universe out there, you only need to read.
255. Yorum: ↓ English version below ↓
Inszenatorische Perfektion, spielerische Raffinesse, sozialkritische und politische Charakterstudie sowie emotionaler Leitfaden werden in Parasite so leichtfüßig durchchoreografiert, dass man die Transformation von Gefühlslagen nur im Unterbewusstsein wahrnimmt. Bilder zum verlieben, ein Score zum Dahinschmelzen, ein gottgleiches Pacing. Parasite ist ein Film für die Ewigkeit.
--------------------------------
Staged perfection, playful refinement, sociocritical and political character studies as well as emotional guidelines are choreographed so light-footedly in Parasite that one only perceives the transformation of emotional states subconsciously. Images to fall in love with, a score to melt with, a godlike pacing. Parasite is a film for eternity.
256. Yorum: This hits different when you're going full self-isolation mode...
257. Yorum: Nothing will ever top that peach/hot sauce scene
258. Yorum: 2019 ranked
still an absolute masterpiece!!!!! no film deserved best picture more
259. Yorum: Parasite. The behemoth. The film I’ve put off watching since I’ve had a Letterboxd account as I was afraid all of the hype and prestige surrounding this film would hamper my viewing experience. How could a film possibly live up to all of these expectations?
To be 100% honest with you, I was mostly right. Parasite is a flawless film. Performances, social commentary, gorgeous cinematography, writing, direction, etc… All flawless. This is truly a masterpiece in film, but it’s not something I absolutely fell in love with.
It’s funny, it’s suspenseful, it’s timely and that one scene with Ki-taek laying still on the floor in the living room had me feeling fifty emotions at once.
So, yes, Parasite lives up to the hype in its quality, but there’s always the personal enjoyment factor and I thought it was just alright in that department. It’s not a film I’ll find myself particularly thinking back on and I’m mostly just content to say I’ve finally watched it. It’s odd, because I feel like I should like it more and I can’t genuinely fault anything, but it will sit at four stars for now and I will try to revisit it some time in the future.
260. Yorum: 
261. Yorum: See it.
262. Yorum: This is one of the best crafted movies of all time. I urge everyone to watch it at least a 2nd time. The amount of foreshadowing, symbolism and references throughout the film is mindblowing. The peach fuzz/hot sauce bloody napkin scene is seriously the most incredible things I’ve ever watched... ahhh i love movies!!!
263. Yorum: I’m absolutely blown away. 
From the narrative to the cinematography, Parasite takes you on an absolute rollercoaster. Everything about it is just incredible. 
I don’t know what I can say about it that hasn’t already been said apart from that it is truly amazing...
264. Yorum: CANNES 2019
Gisaengchung (Parasite) is director Bong Joon Ho’s first fully Korean feature since Mother in 2009 and stands as the first Korean film to win the grand prize at Cannes for the Palme d’Or in the history of the competition. In Parasite Bong continues his trend of cinematic masterpieces and is yet to disappoint. His latest takes him down a gritty rabbit hole of greed and morally ambiguous quota. The shocks are electric and the comedy is palpable. The climax nothing short of mesmerising with a firm intoxciating punch.
100
FULL REVIEW AT FILM ERA
265. Yorum: That movie was the reason why I passed my school test in biology
266. Yorum: wish choi woo-shik would hold me like he holds that rock 😔
267. Yorum: Leave your expectations at the door and believe the hype. After taking home top honors at both Cannes and Sydney Film Festival, my anticipation and expectations for Parasite were at an all time high, to the point that I was worried I had set myself up for disappointment.
My session ended just over an hour ago and my heart is still racing.
Without giving away too much, Parasite is unlike anything I have ever seen before. Tonally, it is perfect. It blends drama, comedy, and horror in such a way that feels worlds apart from the tonal whiplash I got during director Bong Joon-ho's excellent but uneven Snowpiercer. The performances are incredible across the board, even from actors who aren't given much dialogue. It is also stunning to look at; the lush green lawn featured on the poster, often drenched in sunlight throughout the film, just begs to be rolled in. The camera moves in interesting ways but never to the point where it overtakes the film itself.
If you can, go in to Parasite with little to no knowledge of what the film has in store. I went in a basic idea of the plot setup, which turned out to only cover about 10 minutes of the films 131 minute run time. Once the first act had established the primary characters and set out a plot trajectory, I was pretty satisfied with the film being clever family romp. But Parasite takes so many sharp left turns that it is totally unpredictable.
I don't use the term 'masterpiece' lightly, but Parasite earns the title wholeheartedly. I cannot wait to see it again. Run, don't walk, to see this film.
268. Yorum: Formally this is certainly accomplished. It makes great use of its spaces, particularly the elegantly minimalistic home that the poor family scurry around in. The choreography in these sequences is a dizzying flurry of activity, both lithe and blunt (a body is noiselessly kicked at the top of the stairs but lands with a sickening crunch below). But these images are so rigidly contrived to conform to the film’s message that they don’t ever feel revelatory, they feel hollow. 
For a thriller, the film has no instinct for mystery. It only seems like an intelligent film because it assumes its audience is fucking stupid and leaves no plot point or thematic detail unexplained. 
While it’s often entertaining, I couldn’t pin down its tone; it’s far too sentimental to be nihilistic, too rigid to be sympathetic, and too calculated to embrace its ample potential for chaos.
And as a political film, it’s pretty conservative in its aims, using its finely tuned mechanism to make the almost benign point that... rich people are indifferent to the suffering of the poor, that the comfort of wealth is possible because of the exploitation of the working class.
It’s not a bad message, but it’s probably a bad sign when your biting social satire is glowingly received by the bourgeois critic class. Say what you want about Joker, at least its vision of class conflict pissed some people off.
269. Yorum: Today we lost an incredible actor who was destroyed by an entity that no one can do a damn thing about. Good-bye Lee Sun-kyun and thank you 💔
270. Yorum: if the lack of movies released this year means that parasite gets nominated again at the oscars next year then so be it
271. Yorum: Crazy Poor Koreans (2019)
Dir - Bong Joon-Ho
Starring - Jessica From Illinois
The Plot - It's Metaphorical
The Writing - Brilliant
Attention To Detail - *Pulls Out Microscope*
Editing - *Chefs Kiss*
Cinematography - 놀랍도록 뛰어난
Summary - Eat The Rich!
In Conclusion - Masterpiece
Awards - All Of Them!
272. Yorum: "Kip, I reckon... you know a lot about... cyberspace? You ever come across anything... like time travel?"
"Easy. I've already looked into it for myself."
"Right on. Right on. If I could go back in time........I'd return to the day I saw Parasite for the first time in theaters."
273. Yorum: 
274. Yorum: wow... what a movie. gorgeously shot, amazing score, incredible script, acting, & direction. Bong Joon-ho is clearly in complete/masterful control of his craft. 

the more i think about how earnestly & uniquely Joon-ho explored the wealth gap, the more im in awe. i keep thinking about a specific moment where the main characters have a fleeting taste of a life they yearn & have infiltrated. its no coincidence the entire movie pivots on this scene. the wealth gap is less like the wealthy family’s living room glass wall & more like the infinitely steep, concrete covered, gutter filled hill that seperates the two homes.
275. Yorum: this movie is probably better than your favorite movie.
276. Yorum: it’s been a year 💔
277. Yorum: I still need to watch Lighthouse but currently this is my new favorite movie of the year. 2/3 of the movie I’m curious towards why this movie is considered a masterpiece or has a 4.5 rating on letterbox. It’s a good movie through and through but not until we get to the last third does it become close to a masterpiece. That’s when everything comes together.

Edit: after a rewatch I now full heartedly believe this film is perfect
278. Yorum: Director Bong Joon Ho has made a diverse set of films from the true police procedural saga "Memories of Murder" to the sci-fi premise of people smooshed in on a futuristic train after the world freezes over in "Snowpiercer," and in-between his most subtle and compelling "Mother" about an elder woman who will do anything to prove her son is innocent of a crime, driving forward on her quest until it breaks her sanity. I've had my digest of healthy admiration but I had not yet loved a single one by Joon Ho, all tainted by a third act gratuitous complication or an intrinsic detail that's meted out too vague or choice of visuals not cogent enough when some kind of virtuosity is most needed.
Parasite risks much credibility, but it's the first by Joon Ho where I was absolutely rapt with every move. In the story of a family from the lower depths who assume occupational roles on behalf of a rich family by conniving their way in, I found myself heartily laughing at things before they happened because I was so giddy in anticipation of wanting to see the Ki-taek family get what they want.
Here is a film that goes from class warfare satire, to comedy, to slapstick comedy, to bloody slapstick comedy, to sudden horror, to finally tearjerker; it's a film that keeps reinventing itself as it goes along, yet finds the right key to manage every character and exude every action as crucial part of its tightly knit class envy and covetousness design. What happens to every last character in Parasite is pitch-perfect in its inevitability.
If such class warfare message mongering has been said before, then it has virtually never been as said as potently and entertainingly as it does here. It all hums along even when it skates to the edge of excessiveness.
With Kang-ho Song, Hyae-jin Jang, Woo-shik Choi, and So-dam Park as the Ki-taek family; in addition, Sun-Kyun Lee, Ji-so Jung, Hyun-jun Jung, and Yeo-jeong Jo as the Park family with Yeo-jeong perhaps giving my favorite performance as the privileged and finicky wife whose defect is gullibility; then finally, Jeong-eun Lee has to be acknowledged for one of the film's stellar performances as a former housekeeper who refuses to go away.
My first 5-star film off the 2019 roster.
279. Yorum: This is for Trump you big fat white nasty smelling fat bitch why you took me off the motherfuckin schedule with your trifflin dirty white racist ass you big fat bitch oompa loompa body ass bitch I'm coming up there
280. Yorum: This doesn’t even need a review, It’s Parasite.
281. Yorum: Going to start recommending this to people who haven’t seen it yet by saying “it’s fun for the whole family” and then I wait for them to sue me
282. Yorum: 🦠🦠🦠 FOUR TIME ACADEMY AWARD WINNING FILM PARASITE!!!!!!!!!!
I’m so so so incredibly happy for the Parasite team. CINEMA WON TONIGHT 🦠🦠🦠
283. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho's Parasite is a fantastic film that was also the first movie I ever reviewed here on Letterboxd. I adore this film and my first review of it helped me become better as a writer. After all my first review was shorter and not really in depth but now, I try my best to really explain why a film works or why it doesn't. I don't consider myself a fantastic critic especially since I have seen plenty of far better writers and critics than me here on Letterboxd but I am happy people like my reviews. So, since it's my 2-year anniversary here on Letterboxd I wanted to go back to Parasite and explain why it's such a great film in more depth.
What makes Parasite a great examination of class is how it doesn't really pick a side of who is the hero and who is the villain. It could have been so easy to depict the Park family as these evil rich people and while they are presented as naive and privileged, they still aren't evil people. Yes, they're unaware of how privileged they are but at the same time they aren't these greedy monsters but rather unaware of how they benefit in society. The Kim family also aren't portrayed as these poor innocent souls. They're latching onto the Park family for survival and try to use them to get ahead, almost like how the Park family uses the labor of those beneath them to get ahead in society. The title of the movie Parasite can refer to both families and how they both form a parasitic relationship with those from a different social class to benefit themselves.
Everyone here is depicted as a deeply flawed individual. Bong Joon-ho examines the social hierarchy and how those who are rich are more successful than those who aren't. There's some stellar direction by Bong Joon-ho as the scene where Mrs. Park is talking on her phone about the Rain while Mr. Kim's pissed off expression driving the car says so much about the differences in social class. For Mrs. Park the Rain has helped make this day be beautiful but for Mr. Park the rain has cost him and his family their home. The way Bong Joon-ho directs lets Song Kang-ho's facial expressions do all the commentary for this scene. There's no big speech about how the rich screw over the poor but just this driver hearing this conversation by his rich employer talking about the Rain that destroyed his home as a good thing for her. Highlighting the difference in social class without turning into some lecture.
There isn't any hope in this dark satire but I'm pretty sure if this story did have any hope, it would be far less impactful. With how he examines Capitalism and social class Bong Joon-ho shows how these problems exist but doesn't offer a solution. Everything just becomes worse here until it all boils over into a deeply sad conclusion. Every performance here is fantastic, but I want to shout out Sang Kang-ho as Kim ki-taek and the late Lee Sun-kyun as Mr Park. Both are excellent at playing the patriarchs of their respective families. They bring an amount of sympathy to both of their characters while still highlighting the personality flaws of their characters.
There is a great amount of humor as there is a lot of Bong Joon-ho's work and it really fits the tone of this dark satire. Parasite might just be Bong Joon-ho's best directed film as there are so many great moments he brings out through the story. I mentioned the talk in the car with Mrs Park and Mr Kim before that says so much about differences in social class without going into a full blown eat the rich lecture. Bong Joon-ho directs with such attention to detail just letting Sang Kang-ho's face with Cho Yeo-jeong's happy conversation on the phone say everything. There's also great cinematography by Hong Kyung-pyo and Jung jae-il's phenomenal score that add to the great story.
Parasite is an exceptional film with no real issues at all. Unfortunately, though so many movies since its release have done these eat the rich type stories and they all fail. Glass Onion, Saltburn, and The Menu are all films that try to have something to say but all are more obnoxious lectures that fail to have what Parasite did so well. I rag on movies like these and films like Don't Look Up and Civil War because the commentary in them is surface level at best. They all have a sense of smugness from people who feel like they know how the world works. Parasite on the other hand is not like that. Bong Joon-ho is very critical of the problems in society, but unlike Adam McKay he respects his audience's intelligence. That's one of the main reasons I think Parasite has caught on so well. It was an intelligent film with complex characters and great social commentary that can be analyzed long after you finish watching the film.
There's more that can be said about Parasite, but I don't think I could truly ever do it justice. Still, I am glad it was the first film I reviewed here on Letterboxd and now have had the chance to explain why it's great more in depth. It's truly a masterpiece that is worthy of all the praise it's gotten.
To close out this review I also want to give a shout out to some of my friend’s great reviews of the film. Check them out below
letterboxd.com/councillor3004/film/parasite-2019/1/
letterboxd.com/festivefatty/film/parasite-2019/1/
letterboxd.com/mickeyotis/film/parasite-2019/2/
letterboxd.com/everynamestaken/film/parasite-2019/
284. Yorum: "Jessica, only child, Illinois, Chicago."
don't ask me why it took me so long to see this masterpiece, I can't even think of what to say
the only thing I can think of saying is that it's an absolute masterpiece, it's tense, it's so well written and the performances are masterful, and that plot twist omfg, I love it, absolutely cinema 🚬
now I understand why won the Oscar, I can't imagine another 2019 movie better than this one, although maybe knives out, but idk, holy shit
285. Yorum: My dad said he still prefers The Irishman so I too am now looking for a new family
286. Yorum: 
287. Yorum: The perfect representation of “They had us in the first half, not gonna lie”.
288. Yorum: Definitivamente es la mejor película del año (en mi opinión). La combinación perfecta de humor, drama y suspenso hacen de este film una total obra maestra, esto sin mencionar la calidad técnica que lleva tras de sí y la trama tan pulida que nos presenta.
289. Yorum: tiff #14
“they say a ghost in the house brings wealth.”
there isn’t much about this that hasn’t already been said. bong joon-ho has created a masterpiece here and portrays class struggles in a way that feels scathing and fresh. it’ll win best foreign language film at the oscars undoubtedly and likely even get a best picture nom and a screenplay nom (major for south korea!).  not only does it look fantastic, i think it’s some of the best writing i’ve seen all year. no matter what this family does, you’re rooting for them hard the whole time. bong has never been better.
290. Yorum: | BEST MOVIE OF THE YEAR |
Man, i literally don't know what to say or do after this movie.
I'm impacted, destroyed, crushed, imbolized and broken. It's minutely accurate and perfectly detailed in all aspects, nothing has been beaten or seemed out of the ordinary, it's life, it's what many people do to survive and continue in this cruel and evil world.
The characteristics of the characters
can be summed up in: manipulation, mercy, kindness, passion, greed and dedication, but above all, human. The plot is brilliant, the script is well written, the cinematography is incredible and worthy of all the awards in the world, the choice and harmony of the cast was the one that transcended the reality, in my opinion.
Shit, I need to breathe, I'll probably spend months thinking about this masterpiece
291. Yorum: 🐕 • 🍑 • 🍕 • 🥢 • ⛰ • 🎨 • 🥂 • 💸 • 📔
{𝙺𝚒𝚖 𝙺𝚒-𝚝𝚊𝚎𝚔} 𝚈𝚘𝚞 𝚔𝚗𝚘𝚠 𝚠𝚑𝚊𝚝 𝚔𝚒𝚗𝚍 𝚘𝚏 𝚙𝚕𝚊𝚗 𝚗𝚎𝚟𝚎𝚛 𝚏𝚊𝚒𝚕𝚜? 𝙽𝚘 𝚙𝚕𝚊𝚗 𝚊𝚝 𝚊𝚕𝚕... 𝙸𝚏 𝚢𝚘𝚞 𝚖𝚊𝚔𝚎 𝚊 𝚙𝚕𝚊𝚗, 𝚕𝚒𝚏𝚎 𝚗𝚎𝚟𝚎𝚛 𝚠𝚘𝚛𝚔𝚜 𝚘𝚞𝚝 𝚝𝚑𝚊𝚝 𝚠𝚊𝚢... 𝚆𝚒𝚝𝚑 𝚗𝚘 𝚙𝚕𝚊𝚗, 𝚗𝚘𝚝𝚑𝚒𝚗𝚐 𝚌𝚊𝚗 𝚐𝚘 𝚠𝚛𝚘𝚗𝚐.
𝔸ℂ𝕋 𝕃𝕀𝕂𝔼 𝕐𝕆𝕌 𝕆𝕎ℕ 𝕋ℍ𝔼 ℙ𝕃𝔸ℂ𝔼
𝐈 𝐰𝐞𝐧𝐭 𝐢𝐧𝐭𝐨 𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐬 𝐦𝐨𝐯𝐢𝐞 𝐰𝐢𝐭𝐡 𝐧𝐨 𝐞𝐱𝐩𝐞𝐜𝐭𝐚𝐭𝐢𝐨𝐧𝐬, 𝐰𝐡𝐢𝐜𝐡 𝐈 𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐧𝐤 𝐢𝐬 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐛𝐞𝐬𝐭 𝐰𝐚𝐲 𝐭𝐨 𝐠𝐨. 𝐑𝐢𝐠𝐡𝐭 𝐟𝐫𝐨𝐦 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐬𝐭𝐚𝐫𝐭, 𝐈 𝐢𝐧𝐬𝐭𝐚𝐧𝐭𝐥𝐲 𝐥𝐨𝐯𝐞𝐝 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐜𝐡𝐚𝐫𝐚𝐜𝐭𝐞𝐫𝐬. 𝐓𝐡𝐞 𝐬𝐭𝐨𝐫𝐲 𝐰𝐞𝐧𝐭 𝐟𝐫𝐨𝐦 𝐬𝐢𝐦𝐩𝐥𝐞 𝐭𝐨 𝐜𝐫𝐚𝐳𝐲 𝐫𝐞𝐚𝐥 𝐪𝐮𝐢𝐜𝐤, 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐈 𝐜𝐚𝐧’𝐭 𝐪𝐮𝐢𝐭𝐞 𝐩𝐢𝐧𝐩𝐨𝐢𝐧𝐭 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐟𝐞𝐞𝐥𝐢𝐧𝐠𝐬 𝐈 𝐡𝐚𝐝 𝐰𝐡𝐢𝐥𝐞 𝐰𝐚𝐭𝐜𝐡𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐬. 𝐓𝐡𝐞𝐲 𝐯𝐚𝐫𝐢𝐞𝐝 𝐟𝐫𝐨𝐦 𝐟𝐞𝐞𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐬𝐡𝐨𝐜𝐤𝐞𝐝, 𝐬𝐚𝐝, 𝐭𝐞𝐧𝐬𝐞, 𝐜𝐨𝐧𝐟𝐮𝐬𝐞𝐝 𝐚𝐧𝐝 𝐫𝐞𝐥𝐢𝐞𝐯𝐞𝐝. 𝐈 𝐚𝐥𝐬𝐨 𝐟𝐨𝐮𝐧𝐝 𝐦𝐲𝐬𝐞𝐥𝐟 𝐥𝐚𝐮𝐠𝐡𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐚𝐭 𝐭𝐡𝐞 𝐦𝐨𝐬𝐭 𝐫𝐚𝐧𝐝𝐨𝐦 𝐦𝐨𝐦𝐞𝐧𝐭𝐬. 𝐓𝐡𝐢𝐬 𝐰𝐚𝐬 𝐝𝐞𝐟𝐢𝐧𝐞𝐭𝐥𝐲 𝐮𝐧𝐥𝐢𝐤𝐞 𝐚𝐧𝐲𝐭𝐡𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐈’𝐯𝐞 𝐬𝐞𝐞𝐧 𝐛𝐞𝐟𝐨𝐫𝐞.
292. Yorum: The class critique in Bong Joon-Ho's Snowpiercer had all the subtlety of an axe fight. Parasite isn’t quite that blunt, but it isn’t subtle either (hatchets are eventually involved). The genius is in the way the movie’s little details and character touches lead to an absolutely bonkers climax—after a shocking twist I won’t reveal—that nevertheless feels inevitable.
www.larsenonfilm.com/parasite
293. Yorum: A FUCKING MASTERPIECE
294. Yorum: “Rich people are naive. No resentments. No creases on them.”
Parasite is a masterpiece and I can’t believe I waited this long to watch it! At its core, Parasite is a tale of class divide cleverly woven into a darkly comedic yet profoundly thought provoking storyline. The Kim family, struggling to make ends meet, cunningly infiltrates the lives of the wealthy Park family. The film's beautiful cinematography and extreme attention to detail contribute to its immersive experience, especially the set design of the house. Overall, I absolutely loved Parasite I’m going to rewatch and review it at more length in the future but all I can say is wow!
295. Yorum: extraemily and squeex collabing in the mizkif house
296. Yorum: So far the only good thing to happen in 2020 was that this movie won Best Picture.
297. Yorum: I came.
298. Yorum: uncut gems
299. Yorum: 
300. Yorum: listen i know i'm very late to the party so please don't make fun of me but HOLY SHIT THIS IS GOOD
301. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho's newest film isn't messing,
Where it's going will keep you guessing.
The family infiltrates,
And tests their fates,
With methods cunning and distressing.
302. Yorum: I really enjoyed this movie. It has basically everything going for it-- violence, sex, knives, rocks, rich people, and more. My only point of contention lies in the lack of a strong, marketable comedic relief mascot. For example, why weren't the minions in this movie? Minions are funny. Banana hahahahaha.
303. Yorum: Showed Parasite to a friend of mine and he was completely freaking out during the 'bunker revelation' scene. On the other hand, so was I, even while knowing what was gonna happen.
304. Yorum: Such an excellent exploration of the darker parts of capitalism and the things people will do for paper, it's slightly ironic that I watched this on a plane but that's besides the point.
305. Yorum: Parasite does everything right.
A masterpiece in every sense of the word.
306. Yorum: This probably wasn't the best movie to watch on a long car ride where I was already self conscious about how I smell.
307. Yorum: I'm actually so sad knowing the last 4 years I could've had this movie in my life 😭 like why did it take me so long to see this! Added to my favorites
308. Yorum: Ok but that ram-dom sounds fucking great and I need to eat it now
309. Yorum: "Parasite" has once again wormed its way under my skin and clawed into every part of me with its sharp teeth leeching and sucking every last drop of blood. We follow the Kims, an impoverished family bred on soot, dirt and acrid subterranean odor as they live in a dingy dilapidated semi-basement apartment where the sunlight only manages to leak in through their tiny window placed near the ceiling. One day, when the opportunity comes knocking at their door – as their eldest son, Ki-woo lands a tutoring gig for the teenage daughter of the Park family, cloistered in an ultra-modern mansion situated in the affluent, upper side of town – the Kim family seize it with a deliciously devious scheme. Soon after a symbiotic relationship has been established between the two families, an unexpected chain of events occurs, which threatens to disturb the Kims’ newfound comfort.
From there onwards, Parasite unfolds like a magic trick with Bong engineering his trademark tonal shifts, causing multiple cogs to spin so quickly and feverishly that they induce whiplash while allowing his comedic switchblades to cut and burrow deep into your skin, tearing up every parcel of your flesh. Bong’s themes of classism, social hierarchy wrought by crimson-soaked outbursts with tensions simmering beneath the surface between the haves and have-nots. "Parasite" is a tactile picture bookend by moments of stillness, only to let the immaculate seams rip open in the crescendo of soul-crushing savagery and infinite melancholy, aided by Jung Jae-il magnificent operatic score. Just imagine a sweet red strawberry with a needle inserted inside. It is a freaky machine of wonder that alternates between tragic and comic, farce and tantalizing pain so effortlessly throughout the entire labyrinth of deceits that will make you stagger out of the cinema, aching with your head inundated with thoughts and your heart shattered like shards of broken glasses. It was the sense of helplessness that got ahold of me. The desperate desires of the indigent to keep their dream alive of one day becoming rich, without them realizing their chance of attaining this dream is equivalent to nil.
"Parasite" is a comedy without a clown, a tragedy without a villain. If the Parks are not bad people, then the Kims are neither good nor bad. They are resourceful and clever people who are merely trying to prevail over their poorness, with both skills and diligence they provide the Parks their ‘indispensable” services. They do not steal from the rich but instead get paid for their work. Without folks like the Kims, the Parks wouldn’t be able to live with this kind of luxury comfort. Therefore, sometimes we wonder who the parasite is and who the host is. Mr. Park often comments on the foul smells coming from Mr. Kim, yet his hurtful statements are unintentional. Simply because the truth is cruel in itself. Fairness is out of the equation just like how it is impossible to hide the world’s ugliness away when life is already full of ugliness. Bong Joon Ho’s delivered a no holds barred game of social class’s battle royale where there are no rules nor tactics whatsoever and impartiality amounts to zilch with people being driven by their unwavering resolve to escape destitution. Foul play is necessary for the sake of safety and hence, that does not make them evil. What is to blame is their fate and the game’s rigged systematic design. As Parasite posits, there are no winners, only losers. The stairs, the fresh peach skin, the sirloin chops, the water flooding from top to bottom, the above and below, the green lush of grass juxtaposed with the scarlet tint of blood, every single image is sensuously put together with a great deal of care and attention. Simple yet effective. The sun-drenched front lawn, along with the bright rays that beam directly at the oversized pane, instilling an image of pecuniary hope inside each of us and this said hope almost makes everything crueler in retrospect. How the Parks’ house looks so glorious from afar, but when you look closely, the roaches are scampering on the floor.
So long…A Masterpiece
310. Yorum: Does Parasite live up to the hype ? 100% yes. Wow, what a movie!
The story line was insane, had a few twists and turns which I enjoyed.
The ending was well executed and made you think one thing and then went down a different path.
This is currently on Netflix, so if you been wanting to watch now your chance.
311. Yorum: want the pizza girl to kiss me
312. Yorum: 
313. Yorum: Ah shit here we go again
Still brilliant
314. Yorum: LETS FUCKING GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!! THEY CLEANED UP!! 
I’m so glad I watched this before the oscars to truly celebrate this  achievement. What a brilliant film, making history, truly deserved. Wow. I’m so glad that a foreign film was able to make such a huge impression and impact in the film industry. 
Bong Joon-ho You are magnificent *chefs kiss* 
315. Yorum: NYC apartment listings be like “Gorgeous cozy dank fixer upper studio apartment in a basement. No kitchen but the people above have a fridge if you’re feeling risky. Will have to share the space with a creepy smelly squatter. Think of him as a roommate for company! This is a rare find and will sell FAST! $5K a month. No utilities included”
316. Yorum: happy new year!! (i have 14 minutes until midnight still but semantics). parasite winning best picture was surely the peak of 2020 so it only feels appropriate to close out the year with it as well
317. Yorum: Hey mom can me and my friends go out tomorrow and eat the rich? The academy already said it was ok
318. Yorum: i spent my rewatch of this trying to decide which acting performance i thought was the best and eventually decided there was absolutely no way for me to choose. just a perfect ensemble where every character seemed completely lived-in. good lord what a movie
319. Yorum: take me back to the parasite oscars hype. when i tell you that era was the closest we’ve ever been to world peace…
320. Yorum: Parasite is life, Parasite is love
Parasite es la gran culpable de que ha dia de hoy disfrute de ver películas y de que tenga una cuenta de Letterboxd. Posterior a la sorpresiva y, en mi opinión, nada merecida victoria de CODA en los Oscars me dieron ganas de volver a ver una cinta que me reconfortase ya que literalmente la amo. Fue en septiembre del año 2019 cuando la vi por primera vez en el Festival de cine de Lima, desde aquel día mi vida y mi visión del cine cambió por completo. No es que antes no me gustase ver películas pero por lo general veía películas solo para pasar el rato o entretener, Parasite me hizo entender que el cine podía ser más que eso.
Quizás la cinta más perfecta que halla visto en mi vida, lo tiene todo, una buena y dinámica historia con un buen desarrollo de personajes, variedad de géneros que pueden hacer pasar por una comedia funcional hasta el más crudo drama social. Bong Joon Ho hizo una obra irrepetible, más que eso, hizo una cinta que jamás me cansaría de ver en tanto te sigue sorprendiendo con la gran cantidad de detalles ocultos. La novena vez que la veo.
Puntaje personal (10/10)
321. Yorum: Given the justifiable hype that has followed Bong Joon-Ho's coruscating social satire, I managed to avoid knowing too much about it, just the bare bones: a poor family infiltrates a rich one and things get dark. Going in, you probably think you know what exactly what the title alludes to and you wouldn't be wrong exactly, but it's a smarter and more opaque film than that. Unlike a lot of releases from 2019 - the year of societal cannibalism - it's not a straightforward story of the poor eating the rich. It cuts both ways: the Parks are representative of a parasitical strain at the top of the pile, exploiting economic division to maintain their privilege, as much as Kim's family are emblematic of rapacious bottom feeders. Bong has the whole stinking system in his sights.
I've been a fan since Memories of Murder and it's good to see him getting international recognition now - and unusual for a foreign language film of real sophistication to get such a wide release, from the art house to the multiplex. What I've always liked about Bong is his lightness of touch as a writer and director; he thrives on moral ambiguity and respects his audience's intelligence - he presents you with multi-faceted characters and an unwieldy set of circumstances and says 'you figure it out, I'm not telling you what to think'. Much like Memories, Parasite achieves a lovely tonal balance - instead of moving from one mode to another, with a potentially jarring shift of gears, it never loses sight of the humour, even when the shit really hits the fan. It's a consistently funny film. The delicate tonal balancing act in the script is complimented by the score, which is sometimes upbeat when the action unfolding on screen tells us it should be otherwise and similarly, all low-end ominous strings that presage an underlying darkness when nothing too sinister seems to be going on. Both seem organic.
Balance is a key quality of the visuals too; compositional balance, and a refined colour palette, which emphasizes muted greys and greens, is occasionally shot through with a vibrant burst of colour. One simple tableau that will stay with me is an external shot of the Parks' residence, with Kim's family lounging on the lawn in the foreground, behind them the monochrome angularity of the modernist dream house lit by an otherworldly orange glow, above them a churning sky of blues and grey. There's magic in the composition of the fallout from the garden party too: the tumbling aerial shots tracking the deluge of water over the steps onto the street below, a jungle of cables framing spitting rain and lens flares. High and low is the predominant theme and it's echoed visually in the location of the Parks' house atop a hill, with myriad steps leading up to it, down to the squalid sub-basement Kim's family calls home.
That 'subway smell' is another subtle invocation of this spatial dichotomy and another instance of demonizing the low. What Park is really talking about is the smell of privation. For him, pinpointing the nature of an unpleasant smell is nothing more than a curiosity, but for Kim, who understands the implication of the observation even if Park doesn't, it cuts to the quick. You might not condone his actions but Bong gives you the context to understand them. The Parks aren't entirely unsympathetic though; they aren't monsters, just privileged and oblivious. The fact we see the story unfold through the eyes of the invaders means our allegiance is broadly with them to the end but it's never clear-cut.
She often comes over as a cossetted princess, but Jo Yeo-jeong still invests her character with a certain wide-eyed likability. Lee Sun-kyun's Park can be engagingly down-to-earth at times too, despite his prevalent detachment from reality. On the flip side, as relatable as Kim's wife, son and daughter are they all possess a streak of cruelty that's less easy to swallow. Memorable, nuanced performances across the board, even in the supporting roles. But this is Song Kang-ho's film. He plays the role of downtrodden family man taking a stand to perfection and you bear witness to his reactions to the hands fate deals him - his highs and lows, blind fury and self-reflection. Powerful performance.
In many ways, the Parks have got it coming and there's an undeniable satisfaction in seeing them get it, watching them being taken in by the ingenuity of the con one knife-twist at a time; it's cathartic. There're similarities to Joseph Losey and Harold Pinter's excellent 1963 film The Servant in that respect; many differences as well, but a core idea unites them - that the myopia of the elite invites their own demise. While those at the top rarely look down with any clarity, those at the bottom see every rung of the ladder on the way up.
322. Yorum: "Not 'rich, but still nice.' She's nice because she's rich. Hell, if I had all this money. I'd be nice, too!" - Chung-sook,
That teepee from America really made for a good tent.
Rewatching all of my favorites from the year and focusing on the acting this time around. Given Parasite's acting awards shutout I was curious to see if I thought it was just.... it wasn't. Song Kang-ho got screwed out of an acting award because too many Oscar voters don't like reading subtitles.
323. Yorum: feelin peachy
324. Yorum: call me crazy, but i think you should be allowed to cut off anyone who gives this movie less than the 5 stars it deserves. you don’t need that kind of toxic behavior in your life
325. Yorum: 
326. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all."
A maestria of cinematography perfectly illustrating the social divide between the rich and the poor, with contrasting shots following a family with a difficult life. We get involved, we support them and we sink with them. The film's great strength lies in the feeling of discomfort it's hard to avoid, where the scam is simple but dangerous and yet so clever and innocently organized, until everything starts to turn and explode in the second half of the film, revealing a new dimension to this thriller and making it all the crazier and more enigmatic, with a host of new secrets resurfacing, leading to a crazy and hazardous blackmail operation. Set against the backdrop of a kind of closed-door environment, we end up trapped in a place that at first seemed like a safe haven.
Intelligent and remarkably rhythmic and excessively well-written with an absolutely insane aestheticism, asking us a multitude of questions about society and people according to class, and really very close to a satire on Korean society in a highly cynical social pamphlet in which no one is innocent, combining different emotions in perfect homogeneity. and an inexhaustible richness and great complexity in the writing, and the last scene where the snow falls in the illuminated city seen from the window of the apartment/basement leaves you speechless. Always a blast to rewatch this masterpiece, and that doesn't change, still in My best movies of all time
Top 100 Opération Beurre & Cinoche
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
327. Yorum: "Parasite" is an exceptional cinematic masterpiece that defies genre boundaries and leaves an indelible mark on the viewer's mind. Bong Joon-ho's direction is a tour de force, seamlessly weaving a tale of social satire, suspense, and dark humor into a gripping narrative.
The film's brilliance lies in its intricate layering of themes and characters. As the lives of two families from starkly different backgrounds intertwine, the story unveils a scathing critique of class disparity, all while keeping the audience entranced by its suspenseful and often unpredictable plot twists.
Bong's craftsmanship is mirrored in the stellar performances of the cast, each actor embodying their character's essence flawlessly. The cinematography, helmed by Hong Kyung-pyo, captures the stark contrast between the cramped quarters of the poor and the opulent luxury of the rich, visually reinforcing the film's thematic core.
"Parasite" is not merely a film; it's an immersive experience that prompts introspection. As layers of deception and desperation are peeled away, the characters' moral ambiguity mirrors the complexities of contemporary society. The film's climactic moments are a masterclass in tension-building, leaving the audience both gasping and contemplating the depths of human behavior.
Ultimately, "Parasite" transcends its initial narrative to become a profound exploration of societal inequalities, human nature, and the lengths people go to escape their circumstances. It's a cinematic triumph that seamlessly navigates between genres, challenging conventions and elevating storytelling to unparalleled heights.
In its poignant complexity, visual prowess, and thematic depth, "Parasite" is a rare gem that deserves every accolade it has received. A work of art that lingers long after the credits roll, leaving a lasting impression and a deep appreciation for the power of storytelling in the hands of a visionary filmmaker.
328. Yorum: "They say a ghost in the house brings wealth. Actually, the money's been good recently."
Kim Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho) and his family live in a basement flat in Seoul, working low-income jobs and struggling to make ends meet, oftentimes resorting to charm, lies and cheating. When son Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) manages to get a job tutoring the daughter of the rich Park family, the Kims scheme to all get jobs with the Parks under assumed names, pretending not to be related to each other ...
기생충 ("Parasite") is a black comedy thriller film co-written and directed by Bong Joon-ho. It won four Academy Awards (Best Picture, Best Best International Feature Film, Best Director, and Best Screenplay).
Actually, Bong's movie won countless awards, among them the Palme d'Or at Cannes, became the first film not in the English language to win the Oscar for Best Picture, and is rightfully regarded as one of the greatest movies of all time.
After two international productions filmed primarily in English, Bong returned to making a fully Korean film with 기생충. The movie originated as a play he had written, and once again deals with themes of class and inequality.
While objectively, it's not easy to find a sympathetic character in the film, it's undeniably delightful to watch the Kim family charm, cheat and manipulate their way into the Park household. Once again, Bong blends genres, and while 기생충 is foremost a black comedy, it also has elements of thriller and drama. It's full of satirical observations, ironic revelations, and increasingly darker twists and turns.
The actors are brillant, each and everyone of them delivering outstanding performances, and the cast features a couple of Bong's frequent collaborators, especially Song Kang-ho in his fourth collaboration with Bong.
The script is flawless, smart and witty, while the cinematography is excellent, the film score wonderful, and the Oscar-nominated art direction outstanding.
Remarkably, the Park's beautifully designed house - just as important a character as the Kims and Parks - isn't an actual building, not even the exterior. It was constructed on a backlot and expanded beyond the garden and first floor with VFX whenever necessary.
In conclusion, 기생충 is a flawless movie, a masterpiece by Bong Joon-ho, his strongest and most quintessential work to date, a brillant, funny, tragic, smart and highly entertaining black comedy-thriller with an outstanding cast.
This movie is on my list of all-time favorite movies, and I also added it to my Liked Films - the movies I enjoy the most, and could watch again and again.
And here's my ranking of Bong Joon-ho's films, as well as my ranking of every movie winning the Academy Award for Best Picture.
329. Yorum: One of the greatest thrillers ever put to screen. Masterfully portraying the social scale in terms of wealth. Its twist is so abrupt and outrageous, it creates a complete shift in tone for the remainder of the film. Bong Joon-Ho has produced a masterpiece with this one.
330. Yorum: I only have one thing left to say:
RESPECT!!!!!
331. Yorum: Words fail to measure accurately and deeply enough the full mastery of narrative structured storytelling to film that is the seminal, genre defying, soulful and universal, best film of the last decade, best film of the 2010s period, one of the films ever made, magnum opus of the tallest order, Parasite. It doesn’t get better than this movie. I saw this film four times in theaters at the time of its release in 2019 and immediately was besotted by it and still am to this day. I’ve seen it countless other times including twice before writing this now. Parasite exists as a rare bird, flawless in execution and completely immaculate and spellbinding in structure and rendering. Not a moment isn’t perfection. Every single performance transcends language barriers, the full measure of each individual captured in their essence and physicality, cadence and inner demeanor revealed and or hidden based on any given circumstance, the dialogue read through subtitles is a delicious treat to analyze the specificity of the words used in this already full cooked and wonderful five course meal of a movie. This is easily the best foreign language film ever made. I would recommend this movie to anyone, including people who only casually watch movies. This is the cream of the crop in every regard. Bong Joon Ho take a bow. You are a titan of cinema. You are one of the greatest to ever craft film. What a time to be alive and to be present as your works are released. This is a monumental achievement in every capacity from directing to writing, production design to editing, a marvelous movie. The film was nominated for 6 Academy Awards including: Best Editing and Best Production Design and it won 4 Oscars for Best International Feature, Best Screenplay, Best Directing and Best Picture. That alone is a testimony to everything I am already emphasizing. This movie just that incredible that it would win the Oscar for Best Picture on top of winning Best International Feature. Let alone also wining Best Director and Best Screenplay. The movie is so incredible it transcends language barriers. This movie better never be remade, it already is a perfect movie for audiences across the world, no need to reimagine what already was rendered flawlessly. The picture is always engaging, it’s also flat out hilarious consistently, it’s truly riveting, astoundingly shocking, surprising, taut, suspenseful, gut wrenching, poetic and deeply prophetic analyzing the wealth inequalities and social disparities in society in ways that are unmistakably brilliant and inspiringly indelible visually and narratively. This movie takes my breath away, it engulfs me in a time and space beyond my own, yet completely taking me there and paints fully realized complex, surprisingly likable regardless of immoral acts and riveting characters to discover and dissect. The themes of the piece staggeringly layered and resonating on every level as supreme truth. They can and should and probably will teach film study classes highlighting this movie specifically. To even begin to feel like I address with specificity the brilliance entailed in this picture for me would be analyzing the characters and what they mean to the overall narrative and what numerous things the picture is reflecting on directly and confidently through them as the plot unfolds. Cho Yeo-jeong as Yeon Kyo portrays an ignorant vapid pompous one percent housewife in such a riveting way, met with a dense and deeply rich screenplay, the character an avatar for all that is wrong in societies where individuals learn the rules of the look and the presentation of laudable living but never got the memo about the inner substance that should be on display and at the root of everything the bloomed externally into fruition around it. The way she enters the movie by needing to be alerted back into conciseness is such a brilliant choice, as this character internally is a mess of a person who is always gullibly available to placate this idea that she isn’t good enough to begin with. A seminal statement of the human condition and it’s need to showcase perfection where it doesn’t actually exist. A scream in the dark from the collective when for far too long and with no resolution in sight, misaligned individuals have dominated in the game of haves and the have nots, disdainfully ignorant to the greater good or the plight existing for so many right outside their carefully crafted exuberance. The inner life of her and her husband revealing a lack of morality and substance, ignorance and feigned moral superiority just illusions that the lucky can bask in falsely signifying significance in a decaying culture where nothing actually matters. The husband and man of the house, Dong Ik played wonderfully by the late Lee Sun-kyun brilliantly showcases the lack of a man with everything, the juxtaposition startling; he doesn’t truly love his wife and he demands his workers do belittling jobs because they are being paid handsomely for it. The beginning and end of it all is just money to him. The stank of poverty, a real permeating stench, also unabiding to his very core being, his disdain and superiority complex in every measure found in his externalized riches, ignorant to the fact of his wife’s lack of substance or his own as he meanders around the narrative judging and shaming everything that he deems appropriately placed there but in private sometimes being turned on and gratified by those very same things. A human action and way of being that is universal and masked, he and his wife overly emphasis casual sex or drug use as deplorable in public and to themselves but actually deeply long for both things internally. The facade and illusion of grand exuberance and the behavior that the world finds to be simpatico to that lifestyle known to all that desire it, cutting themselves off from their primal urges to facilitate a facade of specificity and specialness that in and of itself is also an illusion. Their son is clearly just a simple child and every emphasis placed on him comes from a deeper place and need from both characters to project greatness onto their experience in order to thrive, including misplaced greatness on their son. The fact on an energetic level that these souls demand these constructs of being is why they are placed in these circumstances in their walking life to begin with. For most people the world can when it feels like it emphasis one’s failings, be a very negative place. The way that life has unfolded for Chung Sook, brilliantly played by Jang Hye-jin, subtly showcased in photos and medals and her behavior when she’s allowed to relax and showcase her gifts, an athlete of merit who couldn’t find a place in the world passed a certain age, a harsh reality that makes her feel bad all the time. Bitterness and stagnation becoming the default mood for her and her husband, the magnetic and prolific Song Kang-ho as Ki Taek. Through expository dialogue in passing we learn he is a man of jovial spirits who ventured into so many odd jobs in life fueled by his childlike spirit, and none of them worked out. He has now ultimately succumb to the notion that corruption is what leads to profit and that everything is pointless and irrelevant ultimately. Another way of being that hinders this entire family at its core. His brilliant speech to his son about why one should never have a plan in life is chilling to the bone as he is analyzing that no deed good or bad even matters in the world. He is a testimony to the grave unprocessed trauma and negativity inside millions if not billions of individuals, unknowingly blocking blessings and living in deep resentment for the other who lives in contentment and disdain and literal disgust for him and anyone else in misfortune for the majority of their life. The smell just sticks to them, an essence showcasing someone’s lack fundamentally, an internal miswiring exposed and evident in their life and lack of abundance externally. This indignity, a persons failure unknowingly caused by their own inner perspectives and motivations, exposed redundantly in exposition emphasized in the narrative and cause for murder at the end of the picture. Very earned and very iconically designed and executed. Anyone who misses the point as to why he kills his boss is also subtly ignoring the brimming tension and exposure to the fundamental disdain the one percent has for everyone else, a cathartic act in the third act that summates the consequence of these inevitable collisions internally that all humans go through when dealing with this topic of success or failure in life experiences. It’s almost as if to say metaphorically speaking life’s report card comes due for all individuals and the awareness that one has over their own life and the perspective other people place on them is enough to drive extreme emotions and pathos to the forefront in any individual. In the midst of these two characters lives and the fostering of this defeatist environment are my two favorite characters in the entire narrative, the ruthless and seemingly maniacal brother and sister duo of Ki Woo and Ki Jung played brilliantly and unforgettably by Choi-Woo sik and Park So-dam. These two have been born into this circumstance and are at the start of the film already living in the ramifications of coming from these beginnings, trying to get the pizza box guy fired to take over his job even before the main scheme of the narrative is presented to them. These performers both effortlessly and indelibly capture the essence of a youth lost to itself and struggling to find a place at the table, the singularity of each individuals wants trumping any code of ethics or relationship connection, their wants and needs never met and always in flux. Even as these characters perform illicit acts on unassuming individuals, their complexly woven essences and enduring like-ability never eludes them at any juncture. So many scenes showcase their inner truths and plights and their explorations always feel honest. My favorite moment in a movie with endless amazing ones being a cigarette break in a bathroom with rising sewage water almost overtaking the entire frame. These are people in the midst of a world that gave up on them still good hearted. The son especially desires to make his accomplishments externally validated even if it will take him many years to attain. The brother and sister are both growing and trying to find themselves, there isn’t any malice in the intention of their behavior, by design they have to claw their way to the metaphorical top by any means necessary. The cards have already been stacked against them. In an odd way they are the two most relatable characters in the picture, victims of the inequality and disparages depicted in societies everywhere and again the two characters are not consciously even bad people. I love the moment in the film where the daughter drunkenly yells out that they need to be focusing on themselves only, this inner modality key to understanding the perspective of all the characters in the scheming family as they seek to better their lives and see almost no way forward otherwise. Everyone in the picture is wonderful. There are other subplots and main characters in the movie but they all end up being incidentals to the point in a greater sense about the irrelevancy and decaying circumstance of the situations at hand, altruism and altruistic desire the thrust of everyone’s life in culture today and the spill over of it explored in many different individuals who all struggle to attain what they want and some struggling to simply survive. The twists and turns and additional characters in the narrative not mentioned specifically by me also enhance a theme of reflection as to who is a parasite and what constitutes the need for that facility in society and life to begin with, leaving ponderous moments in hindsight that also cement this picture as iconic god tier level cinema. Honestly every single thing about this picture is incredible from its thrilling third act blood bath to its taut and hilarious scathing indictment on the upper echelon scheme externalized in fruition first third to its startling and horrific tonal shift and dramatic explorations mid point through when a previously fired housekeeper shows up mysteriously late at night. Not to mention the tense and immaculately designed sequence where the scheming family tries to elude being seen and caught by the returning wealthy family, back from a vacation much sooner than expected. The layout of the house and how it’s design is immaculately woven into the narrative as it unfolds especially at this juncture is stupendous. The camera work and the framing of this movie is spellbinding. Every single shot feels perfect. This is a staggeringly brilliant and fully realized masterpiece. This is such a competently designed and executed vision. This is something to behold, one of the very greatest in all of art and cinema, forevermore.                                                                                             2019 Films Ranked 
332. Yorum: I see why people love this film it had one of the best plots I’ve ever seen and it was done perfectly. The acting was also amazing and the cinematography was beautiful has to be one of the most well made films out there.
333. Yorum: i've pushed this off long enough. bong joon-ho is truly a master of his craft. he can direct at such a high level. i haven't been this impressed since my last time watching kurosawa's HIGH AND LOW. it all feels so effortless, yet it's impeccable. this guy knows how to frame a fucking scene! it's the little stuff like that, that'll elevate your film from good to great. i went into this completely blind, so it's safe to say, that my assumptions of the plot were totally wrong. that said, i love how it played out. my only gripe being, that they could've cut some of the fat out of the script. a lot of it wasn't really needed. still, it's another south korean banger.
334. Yorum: Parasite is a mind-blowing social commentary that is clearly exemplifying how the poor and needy are often condescended upon by the rich and wealthy. The relevant theme of social class is what progresses the story.
There’s also varying tones throughout the film, as the film started off as a surreal comedy about the family's dirty schemes... until the tone shifts into a more dark, weird, and heavy stuff during the second act, and the film's unpredictable twists were now introduced. The third act was even more crazier!
Who, exactly, is the parasite here: the poor family who infiltrate into the rich family's mansion and taking advantage on their wealth, or the rich family that leeches off the poor family's labour while living a life of fancy luxury and privilege?
Bong Joon Ho's strong direction and storytelling makes this South Korean film standout among plenty of Hollywood films right now.
335. Yorum: bong joon-ho making me speechless even after my second viewing !!!! how does he do it? that’s a secret he’ll never tell xoxo jessica from illinois, chicago.
336. Yorum: Sight and Sound’s Greatest Films of All Time (2022) – #93
"You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why?"
Regarding both page and frame, the craftsmanship present at every step of this astounding journey into the embittered thematic interior of identity and struggle cannot be understated. The almost unfathomable interplay of subject and tone is evident of an artist whose dexterity possesses the power to truly take your breath away, rendering you powerless to the layers of talent and meaning blossoming before you. Nothing can prepare you for what comes next.
Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is a flawless achievement, an unquestionable masterpiece that'll linger within countless conversations for years to come. Incomparable work. Heartbreaking, visceral, harrowing, and utterly brilliant.
"You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. Got it?"
*Added to: My Criterion Collection (Spine #1054)*
337. Yorum: da-song said y'all bitches smell POOR
338. Yorum: 
339. Yorum: 2019 Films Ranked. 
My Top 50 Films of All Time. 
Recommend me films here. 

“With no plan, nothing can go wrong, and if something spins out of control, it doesn’t matter.”

Happy anniversary to the first South Korean film to receive an Academy Award recognition, and the first film of the century to win both Palme d’Or and Best Picture. I’m a day late because I fell asleep last night, and I was supposed to watch this at midnight, but here we are. 
I have a lot of thoughts about this film. I am at a loss for words when I first watched it back in December of last year, and I still am, up to this day. It caught my attention from start to finish, and it built every single scene so well that it will surely render everyone speechless. Every little scene is beautifully and carefully panned out, and that alone deserves every single recognition this film got. The pacing is just perfect; it keeps you both entertained and thrilled on what’s going to happen next. I love every single second spent on this movie, and I will not hesitate to watch this again and again, if I have some time. The way that this film shifted from being funny and satire, to being serious and thriller after an hour is some cinematic masterpiece right there. 
There are a lot of things you can pick up from this film. Inequality, pauperism, you name it. It’s sickening to even imagine how the top 1% can sleep, knowing that they exploit poor people just to earn a profit. There’s no limitation on what the poverty-striken can do in order to have food on the table, and you really can’t blame them for being like that. The society is structured in a way that the rich keeps on getting richer and the poor keeps on getting poorer. I love how the movie showed the social class difference through smell and elevation. And the way a rock symbolizes hope, like, wow, this is so metaphorical. And after watching this film, I can’t just simply wish for a storm to come because I’m too lazy to go to school or finish my academic requirements, because the amount of rain can be a life or death situation to some people. The ending really made me sob. The movie could’ve ended with the Kim family getting reunited, but of course, it would be wishful thinking to even think that it’s possible. It’s like the reality is slapping the audience in the face because it’s unattainable in their situation. 
It’s very hard for Westerners to appreciate foreign films, especially Asian ones, but one shouldn’t be restricted by mere subtitles in watching a film as great at this. I, for one, can never watch a film without subtitles, even if the language spoken throughout the film is my mother tongue. I will not let some illiterate folk who can’t read and watch at the same time, talk shit or downgrade this film, because they have no right to do so. It’s definitely one of the best films that came out last year and last decade, and the only film that deserve that Academy Award for Best Picture because they didn’t nominate Portrait of a Lady on Fire. 
Every single lead cast deserve an award for this film. This might be Bong Joon-ho’s best, and I can’t wait to watch his future projects. I have a lot of things in my mind, but I think I’m ending my review here. Please watch it if you haven’t already.
Also, the way I yelled when Ms. Park said ‘Do it clockwise’ because, same. And am I high or is the Letterboxd logo really blinking or something because…? 

Watched on Hulu. 
See also: 21st Century Best Picture Nominees, Best Picture Extravaganza.
340. Yorum: Is it possible to execute a tonal shift of THAT magnitude within a movie just that perfectly? Goddamn, at the beginning I was chuckling light-heartedly, then by the end I was clutching the edge of my seat for support to stay upright and not fall on the ground from the pure PRESSURE of it all. Such a singular experience, it deserved the Palme d'Or a hundred percent.
341. Yorum: This is my third time watching Parasite and I’m still picking up my jaw off the floor…
“Don’t call me sis, you filthy bitch!”
Just maybe objectively the best movie ever made.
#EACS — East Asian Cinema Supremacy —

{watched black and white version}
(Edit: it’s not objectively best film imo as of now, Yi Yi is 😏)
342. Yorum: I rewatched all of Bong Joon-ho's Oscar acceptance speeches this morning, just as a little mood boost and to start the day off with a smile so I figured why not give this masterpiece another rewatch as well. It's actually been quite awhile since I last watched it, well at least for a 2019 film I adore this much.
Going back to the 2020 Oscar's for a moment, I get that we put far too much emphasis on them and they are far from being a perfect measurement of what films and performances are great, but man did I have the biggest smile on my face seeing him win best director, international feature, and film. It's still an uphill battle of getting the West to be open to and accepting of non-English films and getting them the recognition they truly deserve, but god was it so satisfying to see when it won best film.
One of the next steps would be getting more recognition for performances, as this film is just filled with fantastic ones. Song Kang-ho is, as he is in every film I've ever seen him in, perfect. He is able to have a very fun loving personality in this, but at the same time has moments where you see the shame, bitterness, and resentment that he feels. It's well rounded, as most everything in this film is.
I could write a separate paragraph for every single performance in this honestly, so I'll just leave it at saying that I think every performer in this not only brings their best, but the chemistry between all of them is great and helps make every single scene of this interesting and engaging.
It's beautifully shot, wonderfully edited, and is executed with skill and precision in every single aspect of it's filmmaking. The story has it's twists and turns, but the themes are universal and they're communicated in a way that is easy for anyone to understand. It also has enough depth to it that there is more under the surface still.
"It's so metaphorical."
This movie reminds me a lot of the song Bohemian Rhapsody, not the movie (still haven't seen it), in the way it's able to effortlessly change genres. The song goes from slow and almost operatic to high energy rock, fluctuating throughout the whole time. This film is similar, though it doesn't fluctuate back and forth as much it still has such a clean transition into becoming more of an almost thriller towards the back half. It's seemless and it works so well because it has Bong at the helm.
While I don't think thisnis his best film I think it is one of his most accessible. Additionally when I say it isn't his best that is by no means a dig at it or even a critique, Bong just has a few masterpieces and this does count among them. I'm happy that it's been so embraced by Western audiences though, it certainly deserves the praise and acclaim. It reminds me a lot of something like Phantom Thread, just a film that is so well made in every single aspect. Expertly crafted, flawless. If you have ever found yourself wanting to get into Korean cinema but haven't known where to start I can't recommend this enough as a great jumping off point. Just be prepared to enter a world of some absolutely incredible films.
343. Yorum: Movies I can't enjoy as an indigenous person list.
The inclusion on my list for this one is tricky. But the fact that it's tricky is exactly why it's included on this list. I couldn't fully enjoy it because of the appropriation of indigenous culture depicted in the film. Were the characters white, it would be an easy inclusion. But Korea didn't have anything to do with the colonization and genocide of indigenous peoples in the Americas. For that reason, the appropriation in the film comes off as genuinely innocently ignorant. Which for me personally, is quite forgivable and warrants a discussion.
And ultimately, yea, I of course would have preferred if indigenous culture wasn't used at all in the film.
The fact is, depictions of indigenous culture in this way, that is teepees, arrows, indian whooping, tomahawks, headdresses, the works, have spread all around the world in these very stereotypical ways. These wearable costume ways, and it's not alright for these companies to profit off of these bastardized depictions that reinforce stereotypes of continually oppressed peoples.
So innocent or not, it's still wrong.
And what did this plot device really even serve? It could have just as easily been a cowboy obsession for Da-Song.
And something could be said about a point being made, about richness and ignorance. About how the indigenous appropriation is used as a tool to show rich people just take whatever they want without so much as a second thought, but it feels like if that point was ever intended (which I don't think it was) it never went anywhere. It didn't culminate in anything. It just added a quirky Wes Anderson element to the film.
Anyway, I really enjoyed the film still. Joon-Ho Bong really is a master at his craft. It's not my favorite of his, but fits so snuggly with his filmography. Congratulations for Korea's long overdue global recognition since Oldboy. I still believe Korea has had the best cinema in the last 20 years.
344. Yorum: someone is going to need another trauma recovery cake…
345. Yorum: A+ // 95 - Criterion Edition with commentary
If you've followed me for a while, you'll know I've had quite an interesting relationship with this film. A little over a year ago I rated this a B+, and it has slowly crept up upon each rewatch until it has finally reached a A+ for me (after five viewings)! Not going to say much more about this as I've made my thoughts clear in previous reviews and Global Film Podcast discussions, but I'm sure it'll be interesting to see the gradual shift in opinion of this film in my letterboxd diary entries from back then till now. One thing I'll say though is that the Criterion Edition (which I just bought) is very well packaged and the commentary is well worth a listen! 

Also, planning on watching one of the Funny Games films. Which one should I watch and why? Torn between the two at the moment
346. Yorum: Ok what the actual fuck I'm stressed out
347. Yorum: Won best picture for a reason. What a movie!
348. Yorum: Wow! This movie just gets better and better the more you watch it. Although not quite 5 stars for me YET, I reckon with a couple more watches it could easily make it into that. I personally don't blame anyone who thinks this movie is an absolute masterpiece and if anything, I agree with them to a large extent. I just feel like 5 stars atm doesn't feel quite right. I think I need to dissect this movie more in order to appreciate all the intricacies that there are and then I believe my mind will sway. As for now it's still a work of art, just not quite reaching the 5 star mark for me.
349. Yorum: I've seen this film exactly 33x. I don't even understand Korean but I'm at a point where I can figure out what's going on without subtitles.
I remember this was a hidden gem when it first released... I had absolutely no clue what I was walking into.
The story is a masterful-written piece of art... don't even get me started on the cinematography. Parasite has some of the most beautiful composed shots I've ever seen.
I'll never get sick of this film.
You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
350. Yorum: rip lee sun kyun 🕊️
351. Yorum: 
352. Yorum: I have saved the best for last and indeed I did. This is easily my favorite film from Bong Joon-ho. Although, I thought it was kind of overrated when I first saw it because I didn’t get it and I was new to foreign films at the time. Now that I’m used to seeing foreign movies and how films structured, I absolutely loved it! 
The directing is masterful and the writing is brilliant. It’s a blend of his signature style with a mix of Hitchcock, and it has a fresh and new story too. It’s filled with clever ideas and many great scenes here, but the one that stood out the most was the montage scene. That scene is just genius. Almost every scene is filled with high stakes and tension at every corner, especially when the second half gets more crazier as it continues. All of the performances were great, but Song Kang-ho should’ve got a Oscar nomination for this. I even like how the film was shot and it has this smooth and clean look to it. 
While it’s not my favorite film of all time, I can now say it’s one of the best films out there. It easily deserves the best picture win and it’s the only time a film deserved it too. This just shows that Bong Joon-ho is one of the best directors working today, but it’s also a sign that originality is still alive.
353. Yorum: time to jessica jingle my way into hbo headquarters maybe they need a new "intern"....... anyways........ i am manifesting that parasite sweeps in oscar noms on monday and it also better sweep in wins <3
354. Yorum: When I watched Okja I was immediately taken by just how new it seemed. From the very first scene it appeared to be something completely fresh. 
Parasite takes a slightly different approach. It begins as relatively normal but builds into something that surprises you, and then does it again, and then again, and then a few more times for good measure.
If I was asked to, I don’t think I could describe what Parasite is about. Family and the class system are prominent themes but it is much more complex than that.
On a technical level it’s flawless. Everything from the camerawork, lighting, set design, acting and the script is on another level.
This is one of the most tense movies I’ve seen in a while. And I watched Psycho yesterday. This movie goes through every single emotion possible, it knows when to be funny, when to be heart-wrenching and when to be any of the other unique, complex mixes of emotion it manages to pull from nowhere, without ever feeling inauthentic or rushed.
There are many characters in Parasite, but it never becomes confusing or hard to keep track of them. All of them are perfectly developed and feel natural and real. 
I loved the experience of watching this. My Dad and I were in the cinema alone and I kinda felt angry that no other people were getting to see it. I won’t be forgetting this in a hurry that’s for sure.
355. Yorum: 12 months on from watching this masterpiece of modern cinema for the first time, and it still feels just as fresh, as well designed, as well executed and as batshit crazy as the first time.
With all the attention given at the time, I don't have anything new to add. It's all been said already, so I'll just drop this here: Bong's Academy Award acceptance speech for Best Director: Parasite, which just shows the humility of the guy. Wonderful.
Thank you. After winning best international feature, I thought I was done for the day and was ready to relax.
Thank you so much. When I was young and studying cinema, there was a saying that I carved deep into my heart, which is that "The most personal is the most creative."
That quote is from our great Martin Scorsese. When I was in school, I studied Martin Scorsese's films. Just to be nominated was a huge honor. I never thought I would win.
When people in the U.S. were not familiar with my films, Quentin [Tarantino] always put my films on his list. He's here, thank you so much. Quentin, I love you.
And Todd [Phillips] and Sam [Mendes], great directors that I admire. If the Academy allows, I would like to get a Texas chainsaw, split the award into five and share it with all of you.
Thank you. I will drink until next morning, thank you.
356. Yorum: a masterpeach literally a masterpeach
357. Yorum: Now that I’ve formed the thoughts I need to review this, let me just say that my expectations for this film was far beyond what I perceived. Bong has always had a way of using tragedy and class dynamics as a tool to drive a narrative, and this was no different. Where do I even start?
I am unsettled, first of all. Whenever you think the climax closes in on its peak, Bong taps your head in a few more times (no pun intended). This happens constantly and I believe the film is aware of that. It uses our sympathy towards the Kims, our anger towards the Parks, and our fear for anticipation all to meticulously. This film pushed my limits progressively without me knowing. It doesn’t hurt to think about it, but it’s painful to see how this film embodies its stories in more ways than one. Eventually, it forms a masterpiece that leaves you thinking about the emotions you went through.
Song Kang-ho never shows anything minor when it comes to taking on an unsettling variety of roles. His performances are stunning and this is only one of his best ones.
Choi Woo-shik and Park So-Dam need to be offered everything for these performances. This was the film that used their talents to the best of their ability. The supporting actor/actress campaign starts now.
I cant even explain how this film made me feel and that’s what I love about it. It left me completely incomprehensible towards my emotions, but it did make it memorable. No other film has made me emote the way I did. Bong is leading a new chapter in cinema, and I’ll keep waiting to see what else his genius has in store.
358. Yorum: CJ Entertainment: Bong Joonho oppa, what genre this movie will be?
Bong Joon-ho: Yes.
We ALL remember where we were. Best original screenplay in history.
359. Yorum: This had unreal expectations to live up to and it still managed to exceed them. I didn’t expect anything that happened in that movie and that’s really how it should be seen so you should try to go into this knowing nothing at all. 
Every single thing impressed me. The visuals, the acting, the theme, the TONE! It was so funny but so suspenseful at the same time and it kept me enthralled through the whole experience. And I love how Bong Joon-ho deals with themes of class differences and he does it best in Parasite. 
I can’t wait to see this again. The third act is so wild and I can’t stop thinking about it. I got so invested in every character and the ending was beautiful. 
I can’t praise every aspect of this movie enough. It was so metaphorical 😌
360. Yorum: Here goes for spoilers:







SPOILERS









This reminded me of the French film, La Cérémonie.
361. Yorum: get this 40s ass Hitchcock shit outta my face. Nice metaphors bitch
362. Yorum: *slowly removes fancy heart-shaped sunglasses* i beg your fucking pardon
363. Yorum: and y'all say the oscars sabotage horror???? LITERALLY THE BIGGEST SLASHER OF ALL TIME
364. Yorum: 
365. Yorum: add an option to filter out 1-2 sentence reviewshttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nzkw03GRAFI&pp=ygUTc3dhbnMgZmVlbCBoYXBwbmVzcw%3D%3D
366. Yorum: Tight.
367. Yorum: Is this the most deserving best picture win of all time?
368. Yorum: Makes me happy, Makes me smile

































Side Note: I recently made a Discord server for mainly Letterboxd mutuals and such to interact. Obviously It isn’t much now, but I’ll see over time on what I can do with it later. I just find it difficult to communicate with others who use this app and have such great and unique takes and views on the films they watch and I love seeing and reading those reviews. So if you are interested the link is HERE and feel free to send it around if you’d like. I would appreciate getting to talk to many of you and meeting you in a somewhat more proper setting lol.
369. Yorum: i cannot believe this movie exists. an absolute masterpiece in every sense of the word. i saw this film for the first time in august, this is my first watch since then but this time i had the pleasure of watching it at the cinema. wow. i forgot just how much i loved this film. the directing, the acting, the writing, the production design, this film does not have a SINGLE flaw. i truly believe this is one of the best films ever made.
370. Yorum: Who knew peaches could be dangerous weapons?
371. Yorum: moral of the story, be the elephant you wish to see in the room
372. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho OWNS my ass
373. Yorum: Parasite may be the best film I've ever seen and I don't even know it. For whatever reason Bong Joon-ho is such a master at his craft that it's difficult for me to pick out specific things to highlight in his films. The acting? Well that's tied to the direction. Which influences the production. Which is all related to a good story. Which contain wild tone shifts that would've fallen flat from most others. Which contain enough textual material to dig deep into while still remaining accessible to casual viewers.
Perhaps that's the greatest thing about his films, is how much they broach in slight ways that allow for us to investigate at our own pace, at our own leisure and find connections between elements that may not have been immediately obvious and thus allows us the luxury of coming to our own revelations. It's a rare thing to be able to view such politically-charged film-making and not encounter exposition-dumps or be fed lines directly, and while Parasite may not be entirely free from that it really is incredible just how much is conveyed through suggestion.
And all that wouldn't be worth much if it wasn't an entertaining film, and at the end of the day it can be viewed recreationally as both a delightfully fun thriller and a heartbreaking family drama. Being good at everything paradoxically makes it hard to appreciate, as once you start appreciating one thing you'll have to take the time to appreciate it all: I've seen this three times and I'm only now starting to see that.
374. Yorum: spent super bowl sunday the right way, rewatching a korean film in new york city with a bunch of gays, girls, and old people
375. Yorum: Hey, this is actually a great frickin' movie. Who knew?
Yeah, yeah, everyone and their mother knew. As always, I am super late watching one of the most celebrated movies of the past five years. What else is new? At least I am consistent.
I am really glad to have now finally seen Parasite though. This was right up my alley. I love how dark/morbid it eventually became. Absolutely delicious.
I had a blast watching this with Michelle.
376. Yorum: P: retentious
A: bysmal
R: epetitive
A: trocious
S: een better satire in a collage humor video
I: nadequate
T: r a s h
E: verything I said above was a lie this is a masterpiece, k bye
377. Yorum: 
378. Yorum: Full review here.
Crazy how 2020 just stopped being good after this movie won Best Picture.
379. Yorum: I thought this movie was gonna be dark because of the poster.
It turns out to be very light and hilarious ...
.. UNTIL IT ACTUALLY GOES FULL-BLOWN FUCKING DARK AND YOU'RE LIKE, "HOLY FRICKIN HELL! WHICH SIDE MUST I PICK??"

... or must I choose at all?
380. Yorum: Wow, I am in shock on how good this film is. Parasite is a masterpiece. I loved every single minute of it and couldn't keep my eyes off it. This film is perfect with the setting, characters, story, and score. Bong Joon Ho is an amazing director, and I really need to see his other films. I was speechless when the credits rolled, and I kinda just sat there speechless. The cast is great, especially the main family. This is a brilliant film about greed and what it does to people. This film had a brilliant ending, which I'm still taken back at how good it was. This film mixes the genres of horror, thriller, and a bit of comedy.

This film deserved the best picture award at the oscars. This was my first ever Korean film and I loved it, I need to see more now. I loved how most of this film is in one setting with the main story centres around it. I loved the twist in the film. It literally caught me off guard. It was so good. If you've haven't seen this film yet you should watch it. You won't regret it. It is truly a masterpiece.
381. Yorum: #1 it is!! 🤷‍♂️🤩
Surprisingly I don’t have much else to add when it comes to the discussion of this brilliant piece of cinema. I will say, it’s the only time EVER my favorite movie of the year(probably many others as well haha), won best picture at the Oscars. I just love it and consider this a masterpiece in my eyes, Nuff said. 10/10📖
I made it to my 1000th review..🍾 🎉🥳 Sorry it’s a short one but I will add.. 
About a year and some change ago, I discovered this app and sorta became obsessed with it lol(healthy obsession🤞🏼). I just love movies and some day do wanna dive into filmmaking or write some scripts or do whatever in that direction and everything I watch inspires me for the most part. So as I started to learn about Letterboxd, I told my self “I would write something, even if it’s just 1 sentence on all the movies I watch” and eventually, here I am. So far it’s been awesome and Im hopefully getting better at expressing my thoughts through each review. What I did not expect at all!!! Was to meet or even chat with some awesome, kind, and smart peeps, that educate me daily on things I didn’t know about. Thank you to whoever either reads, likes, or comments on anything I write up. All of that is so much appreciated and my comments are always open for discussion. That’s the main reason I joined this app because I can tell most of my friends were getting tired of me talking about movies all the time and this is the place to go crazy with it!! But really tho, to those who either just pop in every once in a while to say something or the ones I talk to daily, or even the ones who don’t interact that much(totally fine!!!), thank you friends!! and you're all amazing!! Also big thanks to Letterboxd for bringing us movie heads together in such a cool way and the community on here is a blessing! Much love!! ❤️
382. Yorum: I'm not the world's biggest Bong Joon-ho fan (loved Memories of Murder, liked The Host and Okja, didn't care for Snowpiercer and Mother) but there's no doubt he's one of the bigger filmmaking talents working today. With Parasite he's pretty much worked towards all his strengths and delivered one of the most creative, entertainingly bonkers films I've ever seen.
I haven't had great experiences with a couple of the recently super-hyped South Korean films (The Wailing, The Handmaiden), but this certainly lives up to expectations. Go in knowing as little as possible and let go as Joon-ho masterfully manoeuvers around genre and tone in what will surely end up the most unusual hit of 2019.
383. Yorum: BEST PICTURE 2020 NO FUCKING JOKE I’M SHAKING
384. Yorum: "That's so metaphorical" - Ki-woo
- 2019 Ranked: boxd.it/2lsbC
- Bong Joon-ho Rankings:
- 5x5 Directors Challenge (Bong Joon-ho 5/5): boxd.it/3IUJC
This is why NO ONE is allowed to tutor my daughter.
In Parasite, an unemployed family slowly works their way into getting jobs with a highly trusting and rich family. Once involved with the family a dramatic turn shows just how desperate many people are to gain employment and survive. EAT THE FUCKING RICH! this movie is fucking fantastic.
I'd like to see this at least a few more times but I already think this is one of the best films of the year. Bong Joon-ho manages to perfectly illustrate how humanity is divided by class and the underlying violence that's present in class conflict. The performances are magnificent and the pacing is spot on for a 2 plus hour movie.
YES, see this as soon as you can.
385. Yorum: Luta de classes genialmente construída de forma sutil
386. Yorum: Parasite, just like other Bong Joon Ho movies, crosses over different genres with relative ease.
As a film about a family imposing on another, and keeping dark secrets hidden beneath the surface, this movie achieves what Jordan Peele set out to do with Us : tell a multi-layered story in a widely entertaining manner. And yes, it’s done masterfully well!
Which one do you prefer 
Parasite or Burning?
387. Yorum: Caracas... que filme é esse? Eu sempre achei que todo o elogio em torno de "Parasita" fosse um pouco exagerado, mas estou mais do que feliz por estar errado. Esse filme é absolutamente maravilhoso, e me sinto compelido a compartilhar minha experiência com ele.
Desde o início, "Parasita" me prendeu com seu roteiro extraordinário. É raro encontrar uma narrativa tão bem construída que consiga transitar de maneira fluida por três gêneros diferentes ao longo de seus três atos: drama, comédia e suspense. O que é mais impressionante é que o filme não mistura esses gêneros de maneira caótica; ao contrário, ele os aborda sequencialmente, sem nunca perder o fio da meada. Cada mudança de tom não só é bem executada, mas também enriquece a história, mantendo o espectador engajado a cada minuto.
As atuações são simplesmente épicas. Cada membro do elenco entrega uma performance memorável, trazendo profundidade e autenticidade a seus personagens. Song Kang-ho, como o patriarca Kim Ki-taek, é especialmente notável. Sua capacidade de transmitir emoções complexas com uma sutileza incrível é de tirar o fôlego. Mas não é só ele; todo o elenco está em sintonia perfeita, contribuindo para a força do filme.
E a direção de Bong Joon-ho... que trabalho lindo. A maneira como ele usa a câmera para contar a história é magistral. A cinematografia é deslumbrante, com enquadramentos que dizem tanto quanto os diálogos. Cada cena é meticulosamente planejada, e isso transparece na tela. A casa dos Park, com sua arquitetura moderna e linhas limpas, contrasta fortemente com o porão escuro e claustrofóbico dos Kim, simbolizando as enormes disparidades sociais entre as duas famílias.
O que mais me encantou foi a crítica social incisiva que "Parasita" oferece. O filme faz um paralelo poderoso entre as classes sociais, explorando a dinâmica entre o pai rico e o pai pobre. Essas subversões de previsibilidade são brilhantes; sempre que pensei que sabia o que estava para acontecer, o filme dava uma reviravolta inesperada, desafiando minhas expectativas e me mantendo alerta. Essa habilidade de surpreender o espectador é uma das maiores forças do filme.
Além disso, "Parasita" evita categorizar seus personagens em heróis e vilões de maneira explícita. A complexidade moral dos personagens faz com que você sinta empatia por todos, apesar de suas falhas e ações questionáveis. Você se encontra torcendo e não torcendo por cada personagem ao mesmo tempo, preso na narrativa que desafia as noções tradicionais de certo e errado. O filme é habilidoso ao apresentar a crítica social sem maniqueísmos, destacando que a luta entre classes não tem vencedores claros; a pobreza e o desespero afetam todos de maneiras diferentes.
O incômodo da pobreza, simbolizado pelo cheiro que permeia tanto a família rica quanto a pobre, é um toque de genialidade. Esse detalhe, tão sutil e ao mesmo tempo tão significativo, encapsula a maneira como "Parasita" aborda suas temáticas. Cada gesto, cada expressão, carrega um peso maior, comunicando tanto sem precisar ser explícito.
A narrativa paralela entre as duas famílias permite um contraste fascinante. É possível ver as similaridades e diferenças entre elas, e isso enriquece ainda mais a experiência do filme. "Parasita" não só faz um comentário sobre a desigualdade social, mas também nos faz refletir sobre as contrapartes de cada personagem, sobre suas motivações e circunstâncias. Essa complexidade é o que torna o filme uma obra de arte.
Em resumo, "Parasita" é uma obra-prima cinematográfica que merece todos os elogios que recebeu. É um filme que transcende gêneros e expectativas, oferecendo uma experiência envolvente e reflexiva. A direção impecável, as atuações poderosas e a crítica social profunda se combinam para criar um filme que é tanto encantador quanto perturbador.
388. Yorum: I have no words…
389. Yorum: genuinely believe we’ll never get an oscar winner as good as this again
390. Yorum: 
391. Yorum: Yeah, it took me forever to see this. I failed the Letterboxd community and the film bros and the cinephiles and all that.
I’m sorry. I truly am.
But I still absolutely loved it, so that has to count for something...
Right?
392. Yorum: I listened to all of you and learned almost nothing about this beforehand. Holy crap, I'm so glad I did that! The emotions I experienced while watching this ran the full spectrum.
Although this takes place mainly in one house in South Korea, I feel like I was transported to another world entirely. Bong Joon Ho has a way of luring you into his stories and keeping you fully invested, and then the ride begins!
The main characters are not necessarily nice people, but they aren't evil either. You never really know if you like what they're doing or not. Showing them at their worst, their best and their even worse still keeps things interesting. You'll never know where this story is going, it keeps you thinking. I'm still thinking about it all, I shouldn't even be writing this review right now, my brain is still trying to digest all this movie roughage!
393. Yorum: i haven't watched it i just wanted to have your attention and tell croatia to fuck off
394. Yorum: I guess only someone like Bong Joon-ho could have made a comedy/drama/thriller about internal class manipulation and social invisible war, without ever surrendering itself into becoming politically partisan to one side in diminish of the other (left wing more specifically), as some usual filmmakers tend to appeal; and make a small masterpiece like Parasite out of that! Maybe his most inspired directing and writing ever since Mistery of Murder dare I say. Where every single detail going behind this movie works beautifully well on screen that lets you know since the start that this is a master’s movie and nothing below that.
The camera work is spot on, where the mise-en-scene may be the best made this year, easy, specially taking the almost-one stage scenario in where most of the movie inhabits (I seriously want to live in this house); the meticulous editing has a life of its own and the pacing is so well rounded that makes you wishing for more when it’s about to end; the script is so tight in its narrative control and density of both the evoke of its high social themes and the moral complexity of every single one of its multi-layered characters, and once again giving my boy Song Kang-ho brilliant material to him work of his great talent; the mix of genres going at each other its phenomenal to say the least, and maybe one of the best I’ve ever seen. How it starts of as HILARIOUS comedy that INSTANTENEOUSLY morphs into a high suspense (almost horror) thriller and that ends on a dramatic tragedy note evoking all the right emotions, its brilliant to spare!
I have nothing but compliment to be giving here to this beauty, even the ending that threatened to be the low key part of quality of the movie for me, manage to happily surprised me in its highly reflexive final note. Where the final minutes adopts that rapid-fire narration over the succeeding events and actions instead of really devoting extra time to showing them, that really pisses me of, but Joon-ho makes it here with the right amount of narration and visual storytelling, enough to hit hard the final emotions of its great story quite effectively and to sound so universally relatable. After all, we all dream to crawl out our life's misery by earning and winning the capitalist laurels that form the moral and ethical visibility dictated by our socio-cultural material goods and behaviors, and through that, maybe make forget and forgive our mistakes and dark secrets of the past that our greed parasite nature may forced us to commit.
The main allegory couldn’t be more clear! And the big highlighted plan theme of the film, it might just be a plan to escape thus life of poverty crushed by the wealth of the system. But if Dostoevsky's Notes from Underground already illustrated very well, and visibly inspired the optics that the film takes, it is that the feeling of revolt and refusal against society and all that symbolizes it in the vicious circle of class interdependence and hypocritical subjugations and underestimations, also reflects our inner cravings for wanting to belong at any cost to survive. And all the tragicomedy that becomes present in this system of our daily lives, is the working realism behind Parasite, where the final catharsis is to have no catharsis at all, just like in our lives.
395. Yorum: I'm serious. It keeps following me.
There are no words to describe what this movie did to me ..
Indescribable
Masterpiece
10/10
I finished the movie 45 minutes ago and still have trouble finding words to describe how incredibly good it was. I'm honestly speechless, I'm shaking, my heart is racing.
Bong Joon-ho created something that changed me, that will stay with me forever.
396. Yorum: “Thank you, Mr. Park!”
If Parasite isn’t a flawless film, it’s pretty damn close.  Crisp, vibrant cinematography highlight unparalleled writing, acting, directing & seamless editing. While easily my pick for best picture of the year, Parasite is possibly the best picture of the decade.
Parasite IMDB
397. Yorum: I can't believe it's taken me until now to watch this masterpiece. Holy shit I'm at a loss for words. This was genuinely one of the best films I've ever seen. I went through the five stages of grief watching this film fr.
398. Yorum: Obviously im late to the game on this one and im sure everything that could be said has been said by this point but lemme throw my thoughts out there ofc this movie is very very good i didnt know too much of what this movie would be abt going into it and i was not let down in what i saw my favorite thing about parasite tho is easily how it has that suspenseful feeling to it where you can feel every scene building and building and tensions rising until you cant take it any longer and youre just waiting for all hell to break loose anddd boom there ya go peace gangstas
399. Yorum: I could imagine the reaction an audience member would have to seeing The Godfather or The Shawshank Redemption for the first time at its release is similar to how we treat this movie. Already it’s claimed best of all time status as Bong Joon Ho’s perfect genre blend of dark comedy, thriller and social satire makes for one of the greatest films I’ve ever had the pleasure of seeing. Stunning visual storytelling that differentiates the two classes of these families without feeling on the nose or protentious. For instance a rain storm to the Parks might seem like a beautiful thing but to people like the Kims it’s a detriment and a destructive force that will inflict massive damage on their home. He demonstrates two different meanings of an event for two different classes all done with stunning symbolism and breathtaking cinematography. While being a technical mastery it’s also extremely funny and the type of humour implemented is so smart and clever and it stays true to the kind of characters these people are. Unlike a lot of other “hollywoodised” films the lower class characters are portrayed as extremely intelligent people because they have to be to survive. The way that they widdle themselves into exclusive positions with this high class family is extremely clever and well done. As well as that the wealthy family isn’t portrayed as complete villains or idiots. The film doesn’t give you a reason to hate them, but you can also see where the lower class family is coming from as their hatred and anger towards these people begins to  grow. But there’s a certain point in the story where the film shifts and no longer remains funny and turns into an extremely serious film. I’m almost tempted to use the word scary when describing the events that occur, and I say that because everything that happens feels plausible and real. There’s no glitz or glamour sugar coated over the top of this dark and twisted story. The subtle imagery shown throughout the film creates its own narrative and makes you understand where each of these characters are coming from. Where a lot of films fall short is not knowing when they’re showing too much and this film understands that brilliantly and leaves a lot to be ambiguous and it works perfectly. It makes you create scenarios in your head as to what will happen to these characters, what will they do tomorrow? When a film has you thinking about it long after you watch it, you know you have a classic on your hands and that’s exactly what Parasite is.
400. Yorum: yeah so this is perfect
401. Yorum: best p(arasite)icture.
402. Yorum: [62]
Hard not to see this for the ship-in-a-bottle it truly is, but equally as hard not to admire the workmanlike construction regardless—so beautiful and formally sharp at times that it almost hurts. But Bong’s bleeding passion comes at the cost of nuance. No disguising his class warfare agendas here: The poor are so desperate that their collective talents - which, by the way, reads slightly implausible to me; wouldn’t someone with e.g. photoshop skills as deft as Ki-jung be able to land a legitimate job somewhere? This family seems too smart to have wound up on skid row in the first place - are channeled toward ruthless ends, competence translating directly into self-serving corruption. On the other hand, the rich are so filthy rich that they’re both oblivious to the way they’re trampling on the backs of those less fortunate and apparently in short supply of anything resembling common sense. (Your entire personal staff needing replacements within the same week should raise a red flag for any functioning human being. Does having lots of money make you immeasurably gullible by nature?) Either way, I found myself directly engaged with the craftsmanship, and while the socioeconomic separation is drawn to uncomfortable extremes, the sheer precision of the clicking gears - the systematic way Kim’s family absorbs themselves into the Park household in titular fashion - mitigated much of my distress over the boldly outlined archetyping. Mid-film revelation (err..twist? I guess?) successfully blindsided me, but also promised a more satisfying closure of the Poor vs. Poor narrative i.e., the point I originally thought the film was trying to make. (Ultimately, the Kim family’s forceful usurping of the existing middle-to-lower-class staff has no real repercussions to the Park family. Sure, their children aren’t getting “properly” tutored, but it’s evident they weren’t before, either, and anyway, they’re completely okay [and/or sufficiently stupid enough] to overpay without proper evidence of worthiness.) In essence, I thought it was a keen commentary on the poor fighting among themselves instead of combining their efforts and resisting upward. All of that implodes during the birthday party fiasco, though, unraveling any thematic coherence and trading the strands for ultra-gonzo mayhem and lots of last-minute hairpinning. (The morse code coda: yuck.) I had similar thoughts on MEMORIES OF A MURDER: The surface-level pleasures and screenplay intricacy have undeniable magnetism, but the boffo elements are simply unpleasant to me, especially when laid up against a scenario that’s at least partially attempting practicality.
403. Yorum: 
404. Yorum: TIFF 2019 Film #2: Special Presentations (Canadian Premiere)
Alongside names like Park Chan-wook, Lee Chang-dong, or Kim Jee-woon, Bong Joon-ho is one among the most widely recognizable of South Korea’s own auteurs but his own approach to genre cinema is every bit as distinguishable from the rest. With his willingness to flourish in black comedy, there’s no doubt that Bong Joon-ho can create some of the most entertaining films of his kind. With his newest film, Bong Joon-ho goes a whole other route and creates a social satire unlike any other – one that beautifully mixes elements of mystery, thriller, comedy in a matter that’s almost unfathomable in Parasite. It’s a film of an indescribable beauty, but for every moment that surprises its own viewers there’s also something more meaningful to be found on the inside. Like all of Bong Joon-ho’s movies, it only promises more and more as it finds ways to feed your expectations and to say that all of them are met with Parasite is a mere understatement, it’s a film that creeps up on you slowly and transforms so much more than what you’re seeing on the surface.
Full review available on Cinema from the Spectrum!
405. Yorum: i have no idea how it took me so long to rewatch this and realize that this is a perfect movie
406. Yorum: INSANE MASTERPIECE.
It's not really a review but my attempt to explain how I interpreted the movie to those who complain that the film is overrated, especially if the reason is that they didn't like the second half of it.
It's much easier to understand the message of a movie when the 'good guys' win or the 'bad guys' get punished in the end. I'm not saying that all Hollywood films are so naive in their portrayal of moral values. But still, I believe that Parasite is much more subtle than most other movies that people are accustomed to watching in which there's a character with a clearer 'moral center' whom audiences can easily relate to. So, I think it's no surprise if the message of this film had failed to register for some of the audiences.
Some complained that they don't understand Ki-Taek's motive for killing Mr. Park. But to fully appreciate this, you need to understand the meaning of a recurring expression in the dialogue which is, "crossing the line".
It's a deliberately ambiguous phrase that can either read as one should respect other people's privacy or as one should mind one's own (social) position instead of meddling with the affairs of those in a different position. If interpreted as the latter meaning, it can serve as another image that emphasizes the subject matter of the narrative, along with more easy to notice the metaphor of the two families' respective dwellings.
It would probably have satisfied such audiences who expected more lighthearted drama if the movie focused on an underprivileged, but more likable family exploiting a cold hearted snobbish family in a comical manner. But the movie would have lost all its genuine charms if Bong Joon-Ho chose such a path, and he is too good a director not to see such a danger.
Instead, he chose to make Mr. Park a reasonable enough character, despite his occasional hints that reveal his true nature. He seems to treat Ki-Taek fairly enough at first, but he also warns the latter not to 'cross the line' if Ki-Taek attempts to pry into his private life.
At first, it seems that it's quite easy for Ki-Taek and other members of his family to sneak into Mr. Park's house in various roles and mingle with them. Ki-Taek even compliments how nice Mr. Park's family is, but his premature admiration soon gets challenged when he overheard, when he was hiding under the table, what Mr. Park really thinks of him - almost a different species of the human being who doesn't even smell like him.
Ki-Taek's final disillusionment came when Mr. Park cringes from the smell of the dead basement dweller and shows much more concern for his son's shock while virtually ignoring Ki-Taek's daughter's status who's dying on the ground, spurting blood from the stab wound.
That moment, Ki-Taek realizes how Mr. Park sees him and his whole family as not an equal human being, but something much more insignificant.
And he also realizes the 'line' that separates the two families is not just that of courtesy or proper social behaviour. Instead, it is a line that can even determine the life of those 'lesser' human beings to be less important than the passing unpleasant feelings or mental shock of those 'proper' human beings.
However easy it was for Ki-Taek's family to sneak into Mr. Park's house, or however they try to socialize and mingle with Mr. Park's family, their existence is no better than that of a 'parasite', which is also visualized so effectively by the presence of the hidden basement room inside the house.
With such disillusionment and anger, Ki-Taek chose to kill Mr. Park, as a parasite could to its host, and like a parasite, he keeps hiding deep inside the dead host's body until he could claim the whole of the carcass and use it as nourishment for his offsprings.
The tragedy was not something caused by any exceptional defect or vice of either Mr. Park's or Ki-Taek's personalities. Instead, it's a 'line' drawn by an invisible hand, separating those classes according to their respective social conditions, which can be so brutal as to be able to deprive the two families of their humanity in contrasting manners. And that is what I believe to be the message this film is trying to convey.
Of course, not every movie must make a commentary on society rather than providing a care-free pastime that everyone can understand.
407. Yorum: Nothing like I was expecting! The story is so different. Such a slanted view on life it is a trip. A very good movie that is a must see. I won’t give away the story but the title is very misleading. Don’t judge weather to see it or not by what type of movie will be by its title. I waited to see it so long because of the title because I thought that it was going to be another type of movie. Give it a try if you haven’t already.
408. Yorum: yup this really is the greatest film of all time
409. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho lays it on thick, doesn't he? "Do you even allegory, bro?"
The first half of Parasite is a (bad) comedy about a family of grifters, or maybe they're a family that just decided to grift right now, it's a little unclear, but it plays like a Hollywood reimagining of Shoplifters, but without any of the subtlety or nuance. For most of this section, I was dumbfounded that this cornball comedy of class stereotypes with plot manipulations straight out of an '80s teen comedy had attained instant classic status.
The second half of Parasite has a revelation that sends it into becoming a different movie, a much better movie, for my tastes. Still laying it on thick, you got the lower classes literally fighting for the same scraps in a basement (OMG the level below the rich! don't you get it?), but this is Bong Joon-ho after all, this is what he does for better and for worse, and it now feels more like one of his films.
Even still, it quickly reverts back to the lite tone of the first half with people hiding underneath beds and coffee tables like it's a TGIF sitcom, but it's building to a climax that you sense is inevitable, and as it turns out, is inevitable. Although there is a Chabrol film that did this climax significantly better and it's never a great sign when a movie just makes you think about a better one.
After the climax, there's a 15 minute epilogue. It is totally different than the first two hours, a bit novelistic, rare vagueness as to whether it's real or imagined, and by far my favorite part. As someone that was lukewarm on this Palme d'Or winning instant classic for the first two hours, I can't help but project that this epilogue had people leaving the film in a cinematic high. That last/best impression either elevating the first two hours for those that liked or loved it, or for those like me who were lukewarm, giving them amnesia of those first two hours with the bludgeoning of a great ending, both resulting in its near universal praise and current standing as the 7th best movie ever here at Letterboxd. I suppose I fit somewhere in the latter, only without the amnesia about those first two hours.
Parasite might still make the lower part of my top 10 favorites of the year so far, but I found it significantly less than its current reputation and am bummed about it. For me, Parasite cements Bong Joon-ho's Hollywood and post-Hollywood career as a sort of arthouse Christopher Nolan; a technical genius with a heavy hand, making audiences feel smarter than they actually are by spelling out the message, which is why I suspect this is the preferred "foreign movie" for people who never watch foreign movies. They can feel pleased with themselves while thinking, "Oh, I do get this metaphor," as this homogenized version of this type of movie becomes easier to digest, which also makes it destined to be a favorite for the most basic taste award shows. This is not inherently a bad thing, Parasite is better than most films celebrated so universally like this. At least Bong Joon-ho has something meaningful to say (unlike Nolan), and it's correct as far as I'm concerned, I just wish he didn't feel the need to put everything on the surface, all the time, over and over again; to create these worlds without subtext, only boldfaced text.
This is a good film, sometimes a very good one, but I think it falls well short of masterpiece. I look forward to observing its reputation in five years, where I think when the momentum dies down it will reduce to some degree. In the meantime, you can fight me about Parasite in the basement, where I am, and will always be.
410. Yorum: The dogs were really cute! I love them!! That’s all I have to say, I don’t want to spoil. It’s an experience! It’s incredible! Believe the hypeeee
411. Yorum: My dog farted so hard it I couldn’t read the subtitles
412. Yorum: I’m a broken record at this point... but 2019 really was an incredible year for film.
This one is definitely on my fav of 2019 list. I loved how much Bong Joon Ho juggled tone here. Every scene was unexpected, with the story always miles ahead of anything I’d assume.
Excellent filmmaking across the board. It wasn’t the movie I thought I was getting and I love it for that.
413. Yorum: during the q&a bong called parasite a “staircase movie” and little does he know he just inspired my term project <3 his mind <3
414. Yorum: this is one of those times i wish letterboxd let us give a rating higher than 5 stars.


literally cancel every other movie participating in award shows right now and give parasite EVERYTHING
415. Yorum: من فيلم الخادمة لأستاذ عصرة كيم كي يونغ
والخادم لجوزيف لوزي وغيرها الكثير من الأعمال التي تحدثت عن خدم أنتهازيون يحاولون فرض أمر واقع على أسيادهم بطمعهم الشديد، الا أنها أعمال تبدأ من منزل السيد
و تنتهي به بدون الألتفات للجانب الأخر وهي البيئة التي أتى منها ذلك الخادم وشكلت هويته ، المبجل "بونغ جون هو" كان واضحاً بشدة منذ المشهد الأول وصولاً للمشهد الذي ظهر فيه منزل العائلة الثرية لتبيان الفجوة العميقة بين الطبقات الأجتماعية وهو دافع و مُحفز لنا كمشاهدين لتفهم حالة السُعار التي أصابت العائلة الفقيرة و جعلهم أكثر تمادياً في تصرفاتهم الغربية !
"بونغ" هو كاتب العمل أيضاً فتشعر وكأن الجميع يلعب دور البطولة المُطلقة فقد أستثمر الشخصيات بالشكل المطلوب و المتكافئ ، السيناريو كان بشكل غير متوقع ويذهب لأبعد مما تذهب له مخيلتك و قد تبدوا بعض الأمور غير منطقية لكنني سأعتبرها أحد الأساليب الغرائبية من بونغ كما في بعض سابق أعمالة .
416. Yorum: 
417. Yorum: if my house flooded, i would also sit on the toilet and chainsmoke
418. Yorum: this is truly miles ahead of every other movie released last year
419. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho's Parasite is a really return to form for the South Korean director, leaving the fantasy genre aside and going back to a much grounded direction that still embraces the fun and social commentary we've come to love from him, creating a flawless masterwork and a great, very entertaining exercise on tension.
The camera work doesn't hit the same highs as, say, Memories of Murder, but there are still awesome photography work and framing. With a few scenes reminding me to the work of his counterpart, Chan-Soon Park.
The message as a whole was very polarizing to me, mostly because of a script that sometimes asks for audience too much and very little reason to embrace them (HINT: The very ending). That being said, there are some fun lines, moments and its very smart most of the time.
I genuinely expect for the film to at least get that foreign film nomination (and win?)
420. Yorum: Perhaps the most explicit class commentary in recent years on the divide between the wealth class and the working class, much in the same way that American Beauty explicitly hit home with the generation yearning to escape the empty and soulless cubicle existence in 1999. Both films perfectly captured the zeitgeist of the moment, skyrocketed in popularity, and grabbed a plethora of awards including Best Picture at the Oscars.
The primary difference is that nobody gives a flying fuck about American Beauty anymore, and not only because of Kevin Spacey. It's simply not a film that resonates as strongly today as it did in 1999. The worries of yesterday differ from the worries of today. A person struggling financially might find it difficult to relate to a guy who is sad but otherwise has everything he could ever want. Lester just needed to grow the fuck up and realize how nice he's got it. Motherfucker wouldn't know a real problem if it foreclosed on his $350,000 suburban home.
I think Parasite will have more longevity than American Beauty because there always were class struggles in America and there likely always will be. However, I do not believe that Parasite will always be viewed as a masterpiece film, one of the all-time greats, or held in a higher esteem than it is currently. Films that capture the zeitgeist of their time seldom (if ever) can maintain their status as time goes by, even if their themes still resonate, and if the films succeed greatly in cinematic terms.
Parasite is a gorgeous movie with excellent cinematography, wonderful music, flawless editing, and hardly any weak areas to speak of (the same could be said about American Beauty). Cinematically, it's fantastic.
Story-wise, it works more often than it doesn't. The characters are rather stock, however, and don't excel outside of their physical function within the story. I won't call them shallow, but I will say that the depth of the movie does not come from its characters. The depth comes from its themes, metaphors, and how well they are woven into the fabric of the movie from start to finish. A LOT of thought was put into this part of the movie, but I don't feel that as much care was given to other areas.
Speaking of characters, why is this family not working at the beginning of the story if we see them later on possessing the drive and the skills to actually make money? Why is the father not driving? Why is the daughter not doing graphic design on Fiverr or something? I would have preferred if there was more present in the film in the way of there not being opportunity for these otherwise skilled and driven people, but the best we get is a single line about how a job opening for a security guard has 500 applicants or some shit, which speaks more to the father's world view and less about whether or not that is indeed their reality. Is it? We have no idea. We needed to actually see that reality in order to understand it, and in order for it to be an actual element of this story. Otherwise, there is no reason for these bumbling fools who can't even fold cardboard somehow simultaneously being excellent at driving, wonderful at cooking, and exceedingly competent at every single thing asked of them. The way the movie is constructed, it feels contrived. These people are either skilled or they are not. It can't be both ways, but the movie wants it to be.
The entire first half of the movie is dedicated to moving the pieces around the chessboard to get the story started proper. That is a long time to set everything up, and I cannot see that part of the film being as captivating on repeat viewings. We don't find out about the secret basement until the midpoint when the poor family inexplicably lets the former maid into the home. That came off as a contrivance for the story to keep moving. Why not just ask the lady what she left in the basement? They didn't even bother to ask! At least ask. And why was she beat up and bloody? That was never explained. This moment would have worked better if she wasn't bloody, because then the poor family would have no reason not to let her in. But if she shows up looking like she just got in a fight, that begs some questions that unfortunately were not asked. It's little things like this that can be very easily fixed that irk me the most. Just take a second and fix this. It's literally not hard at all and would take little effort while not affecting the rest of the movie. There is no reason for these kinds of issues existing in a movie so otherwise meticulous in every detail.
The second half of the film is rich with cliche, and I found myself ahead of the story on several occasions. Obviously the family was coming home early, so that was not a surprise at all to anyone who has seen one movie before in their lifetime. And the whole bit about the "ghost" coming up from the basement just as the son was receiving his "trauma-recovery cake" could be seen coming from 20 minutes away. Additionally, the whole deal about morse code came out of nowhere and ultimately served only to present a way for the father in the basement to communicate with his son in a manner that was insufficiently established. Furthermore, I feel that a lot more could have been done with the secret basement, and a lot more could have been done if the entire first 65 minutes were not dedicated to setup.
Overall, I feel as if what this movie has to say, and the many layers in which it is said, is a lot more interesting than the film which is used to say it. It isn't a bad movie, but it's not a masterpiece, either. Not by any stretch. If you want to see a real South Korean masterpiece, watch Burning.
421. Yorum: Mom liked it! This will be a respectable hit over here if Neon puts in the work.
422. Yorum: ☆"This is so metaphorical!"☆
Believe the hype. Bonghive, bring the noise.
Bong Joon-ho's Parasite, for many the most anticipated film of the year following its Palme d'or win at Cannes and subsequent raucous and ravenous reviews at festival after festival, is finally rolling out to U.S. in a slow deliberate fashion. Though I live two hours from a theatre that is showing it today, that drive is but a stone's throw away in my mind. I wasn't going to wait any longer to see this movie. And neither should you. Go to a movie theatre to see this masterpiece and support groundbreaking cinema.
You don't want to know much about the plot. So let's keep it short. The Kim family have fallen on hard times. Father Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho) is unemployed and struggles to find work to support his wife Chung-sook (Jang Hye-jin), daughter Ki-jeong (Park So-dam), and son Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik). They have an infested basement apartment, steal wi-fi when they can, and make it by the skin of their teeth. One day, Ki-woo gets a break, and earns a shot at a tutoring position for the daughter of the ultra-wealthy Park family. He schemes his way into the job teaching English to 16-year-old Da-hye (Jung Ji-so), and then realizes, maybe it's possible for his family to get a break too…
That's it, that's all you get, about the first 20 minutes of the movie. I will make you see this if I have to drive you there myself. Who lives within two hours of Delaware? (And is preferably female and single. Call me.)
Parasite at first is all about the hustle. You may have your side gigs, but the Kim family has to hustle every moment of every day. But when you are on the bottom, you do what you gotta do. And Bong Joon-ho crafts a film here -- assisted by co-screenwriter Han Jin-won -- that is so intricate, so layered, so full of metaphors as Ki-woo said himself in a very meta moment… that you will be pulled in to an increasingly urgent and timely story about class, privilege, and social mobility. Here, you'll see how the other half lives, and how the other other half feeds on their souls.
Angles of dark comedy and thrills are nothing new to master filmmaker Bong, but it is turned up to 11 in Parasite. While at times lulling you into just a clever tale of brinksmanship and hardscrabble fortune -- with his signature brilliant humour and twists -- soon there's one nerve-wracking crescendo after another in what was an hour-long spiral of cascading emotion and mania. This is a dazzling, powerful, and gripping work that is unlike anything I have seen in a long long time.
Not only does Bong Joon-ho obliterate genres yet again, he has eviscerated the distinction of crowd-pleasing dramatic thrills and arthouse intelligent "cinema." This is the magnum opus of his untouchable career. It is a surefire hit. And it is unquestionably the best film of the year.
Added to The Best Narrative Films of 2019.
Added to 2020 Independent Spirit Awards nominees, ranked.
Added to 2020 Academy Awards nominees, ranked.
Added to Bong Joon-ho ranked.
Added to My Subjective List of the Best Narrative Films.
Added to My Subjective List of the Best Films from Every Year I've Seen Them.
423. Yorum: The earth is attempting to rid itself of an infection by human parasite.
A parasight for sore eyes.
424. Yorum: Movie Challenge (recommended by friends)
#12
"if you make a plan, life never works out that way. with no plan, nothing can go wrong."
took me so long to watch this. but here i am finally.
what a well writen! the moral of the story was good. a true masterpiece👏🏻👏🏻
i was speechless when the movie ended. it was a sad ending, but it's also an honest ending. we all know there's no way he can afford that house.
this film is very similar to some of our lives💔
425. Yorum: I HAVE NEVER SAID A BAD THING ABOUT THE ACADEMY THE ACADEMY IS MY FRIEND. WE ARE BESTIES. I HANG OUT WITH THEM ALL THE TIME! THEIR WEED? I ROLL IT! 
THATS BEST PICTURE WINNER 4 TIMES ACADEMY AWARD WINNING PARASITE TO YOU! This is what it feels like to win!!!!!! 
Every best picture winner ranked! 
426. Yorum: That peach scene alone is perfect enough to earn every award out there.
Everything in this film is so well thought out. It’s all perfectly structured from the production design to the dialogue, all of it is crucial to the story and the attention to detail is insane. the whole Parasite team deserves to win it all, I just wish the cast got their acting nominations but we all know Oscars are great with their snubs. However for Bong Joon-Ho, he deserves all the recognition he’s getting.
I had high expectations but at the same time, I had no idea what to expect and wow, i was not let down at all. It was a fun ride and I was hooked from beginning to end. There’s lots of funny moments but as well as intense scenes. It was a perfect balance and all of it was directed so well. This is a film I’ll be thinking about for a while. I haven’t seen a few of the other best picture nominees so we’ll see if my mind changes but as of right now, Parasite is my top pick for winning that best picture.
427. Yorum: Bersama "Parasite" Bong Joon-ho melakukan apa yang belum pernah sutradara Korea Selatan lain capai sebelumnya, ya, tidak hanya mencengangkan penonton dan juri Cannes, Joon-ho sekaligus membawa pulang penghargaan tertinggi piala Oscar sebagai film terbaik untuk pertama kalinya buat Daehan Minguk, sebuah pencapaian luar biasa yang sangat pantas!
Dengan hype begitu tinggi, pemilihan poster-nya yang membuat penasaran akut, Parasite telah menciptakan kehebohan tersendiri di kalangan pecinta film pasca Cannes, tetapi apa yang sebenarnya ditawarkan "Parasite?" Apakah dia horor, thriller atau komedi? Yang perlu kamu ketahui tentang "Parasite" itu hanya sekedar definisi umumnya saja; "Sebuah organisme yang hidup di dalam tubuh organisme lain (inang) dan mengambil/menyedot nutrsinya". Ya, penjelasan ilmiah itu sudah lebih dari cukup untuk menggambarkan isi "perut" dari film panjang ke-7 Bong Joon-ho ini, bahkan ungkapan "Semakin sedikit yang kamu tahu semakin baik" itu saja terasa berlebihan karena khusus untuk kasus ini "Tidak ada sama sekali yang kamu tahu itu jauh lebih baik".
"Parasite" adalah kegilaan! Ya, kegilaan yang hanya bisa dibuat oleh sutradara sekaliber Bong Joon-ho yang sebelumnya pernah menelurkan karya-karya hebat lain macam "Memories of Murder", "The Host", "Mother" & "Snowpiercer". Ibarat bibimbap (nasi campurnya Korea), Parasite adalah kumpulan dari komedi hitam, heist movie, thriller home invasion, komentar sosial, drama keluarga, kematian dan darah yang semuanya dikumpulkan dalam satu mangkuk besar lalu diaduk dan dicampur dengan cara jenius yang belum pernah kamu lihat sebelumnya.
Semua kegilaan total Parasite juga dihadirkan dengan dukungan teknis level dewa, coba lihat saja pergerakan alurnya yang cerdas di mana flash back dan current event-nya terasa mulus, menghasilkan plot yang tidak hanya rapi namun sarat dengan kemarahan dan isu sosial tentang kemiskinan dan keserakahan manusia dan yang terpenting adalah Joon-ho seperti biasa, tahu persis untuk menempatkan twist dan meledakkan di saat yang tidak pernah kamu kira, cukup untuk membuatmu terjengkang karena tak siap dengan kejutan yang datang silih berganti. Lalu juga lihat bagaimana kamera Joon-ho bergerak dan menangkap setiap momen di dalamnya, bagaimana setiap kekacauan dihadirkan dengan berkelas, termasuk di dalamnya memberikan sentuhan scoring dan efek slowmo keren lagi-lagi di saat yang pas sehingga menghasilkan efek kagum dan puas disaat bersamaan. Dan terakhir tentu saja pemilihan cast jempolan. Joon-ho kembali membawa aktor favoritnya, Song Kang-ho, mencampurnya dengan cast jagoan lain macam Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik, Jang Hye-jin dan Park So-dam yang menghasilkan ensamble cast keluarga terbaik yang pernah dimiliki Joon-ho setelah "The Host".
Ya, ini adalah orkestra kegilaan pintar yang dipenuhi amarah dan sindiran tajam dari sajian home invasion thriller dengan rasa komedi hitam pekat yang tidak pernah kamu lihat sebelumnya. Sebuah kombinasi hebat dari ide cemerlang dan eksekusi brilian dari seorang Bong Joon-ho.
428. Yorum: There are, quite honestly, no words.
RESPECT!!!
Favorites
2019 Ranked
Best Picture Winners Ranked
Best Director Winners Ranked
Favorite Screenplays
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
Neon Ranked
429. Yorum: 
430. Yorum: #Cannes2019
made me laugh, made me cry, made me feel on edge.
431. Yorum: For a film full of cheats, frauds and sociopaths, each family unit loves each other truly and deeply. Just nobody else.
432. Yorum: Part 9 of the January Film list
4th Bong Joon-Ho (after The Host, Snowpiercer and Memories of Murder)
Ohhhh. I get it. I get why this was so big, both on here and in general.
Sometimes, there's a real danger in being leery of what's popular. Sure, you can dress it up as a healthy scepticism against the monotony of consensus (and certainly in some cases I still do), but there comes a point where that turns into wilful hipsterism, and certainly my challenge to see everything on the Sight and Sound Top 100 of 2012 and 2022 has repeatedly demonstrated that I'm exceptionally guilty of this. These films are considered the best for a reason, and while there are some I think are worth their place more than others (not completely convinced Get Out deserves to be there), Parasite completely deserves its place. Whether in ten years it will have stood the test of time as L'Avventura has demonstrated since its release (though its march backwards through the Top 100 doesn't inspire much hope for its presence in 2032) is a different matter, but I'm willing to bet that its excellence on all fronts will keep it in good stead. Deserving of the Best Picture Oscar and a worthy rival for the title of Best of the Best Picture with Lawrence of Arabia.
Bong Joon-Ho in Order:
1. Snowpiercer
2. Parasite
3. The Host
4. Memories of Murder
433. Yorum: 100-word review: Prefacing this by saying I, someone with a distaste for Bong Joon-ho's filmography, and historically a contrarian when it comes to virtually unanimously beloved films, have put off watching Parasite until now, because I was very afraid I would wind up giving it three stars; fortunately this was not the case — it's indeed great. Loved the bluntness of the moral about the bottom ten percent fighting over the scarps of the top ten percent, instead of uniting in their common struggle; the physical manifestation — one family living three-quarters underground, this other family even deeper underground — is candid greatness.
434. Yorum: A tragic comedy thriller that serves as a powerful social satire in exploring the capitalistic class inequality and the toxic darker side of human greed. Though the storyline feels far fetched, the impactful narrative, detailing and execution makes it a wholesome cinematic experience. The cinematography, editing, dialogues and performances are outstanding. The metaphors are strong throughout and the climax sums up all the frustration of lack of awareness and sympathy in a groundbreaking way. A masterpiece from Bong Joon-Ho.
"You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. Got it?"
435. Yorum: The second time around I could really appreciate how well this film was made. I genuinely cannot think of a single flaw here. Every scene is so fluid and perfect. There is so much foreshadowing and little important details everywhere. Even though every frame and pixel has already been studied under a microscope by everyone, it’s still fun trying to decipher it all.
436. Yorum: watching the second time i was excited to focus more on the photography and sound... NOPE, got sucked as deeply into the story as the first time 
437. Yorum: So guys, I gotta let you know something! I have a revolutionary take on this film that I'm absolutely positive nobody else has stated on this platform, or anywhere in general. So, get ready and here we go!






















Yeah, it's good.
438. Yorum: "Relax."
When I heard rumors surrounding this movie, I had it in my mind that some supernatural elements existed. However, everything is portrayed very realistically with superb cinematography by Kyung-pyo Hong. 
It starts out with the Kim family: a mom, dad, brother, and sister. They are caught in a class struggle. The fact that automation is killing jobs popped into my mind. They lived in an almost post-apocalyptic situation where food, jobs, and (gasp) Wi-Fi were hard to get. The Kim son goes to interview as a tutor for the eldest Park child, Min. 
The Park family is also composed of a rich-bitch mom, a high-level corporate dad, the holy terror younger son Da-song, and shy middle sister Da-hye. They are all products of wealth whether they like it or not. 
One of the most compelling scenes was showing the aftermath of a traumatic event that happened. The Kim family was hit hard, while the "rich" Park family woke up to a new day just like clockwork. 
While I liked the film a lot, I was not as impressed as I thought I might be. It's really similar to a French film I saw (will reveal the title of it in a soon-to-follow spoiler review of Parasite). I was totally emotionally disturbed by it, however, and I think that it far exceeded any merits Joker might have had. 
But— they should have given the Palme d'Or to Ken Loach's Sorry We Missed You. 
Just saying. 
Vegan alert:
-Mr. Kim flicks a bug. 
-The housekeeper offers Mrs. Park honey. 
-Meat at the buffet 
-Cutting meat with scissors 
-Japanese crabsticks for Foo Foo (the dog)
-Mrs. Kim pushes a dog. 
-Eggs in the fridge. 
-Sirloin is added to the ram-don. 
-Salmon steaks at the party 
-Whole crawfish at the store 
-Dog eating meat at the party
-Mr. Kim eats canned salmon. 
-Reference to German sausage 
Vegan points:
The housekeeper always serves the children fruit plates.
439. Yorum: Before 2019, I would have held The Social Network as the definitive 2010s movie. But Fincher's masterpiece would have gotten away with it if it weren't for Bong Joon Ho's meddling little Parasite!

The Social Network may speak more to the current younger generation more versed in online culture, but there's something.....complete and immediate about Parasite, isn't it? It just hit the right alignment of a place and time where we as a species are really starting to look at ourselves for the very first time; we see clearly now whom among us has privilege and access thanks to our smartphones filling us with way more information than we can process.

I think one reason this Best Picture winner feels so universal is because the film language is easy to follow without ever being simplistic. The script melds plot and character and situation together. Text and subtext are occurring in tandem. The obvious is happening along with what's beneath the surface. Bong understands that action is character; he nails specific actions to reveal who his characters are. So even when something appears inconsistent, the specificities are so solid that it feels true to what's happening. This is how he can get away with wild tonal shifts without losing us!

The Kims are con artists whose actions ruin lives, and yet we pass no judgment on their crimes. They are a united family through and through. Bong will for instance have Mama Kim wiggle her son's ear playfully while he's in the middle of conning the Park's daughter. Or how about ex-maid Moon Gwan massaging her masochistic basement dwelling husband as they make the Kims kneel. Everyone is adorable even as they plot and scheme. We can't help but go along with them, maybe even laugh in spite of ourselves at people doing questionable things.

On the not-so-cute side, Bong never paint his main characters without blame. With Mama Kim for instance, notice the cut to the next scene as she swings the olympic ball-on-chain off frame? We never see where it lands but we hear it crash in someone else's home just as it cuts to the next scene. Bong does this strange cutting again when Mama Kim shoos the Parks' dog away in her drunken stupor. Notice Ki-jung/Jessica gets drunkenly defensive when Papa Kim and Ki-woo lament the fate of the driver she framed with her panties. Could it be her deflecting her guilt for having the driver fired perhaps? Bong's awesome timing has roaring thunder to accentuate this!

More on the panties, the rock isn't the only metaphorical macguffin in the movie. I always laugh at how Mrs. Park uses a plastic glove to pick up the planted panties, but then gasps in shock, placing her gloved hand on her mouth. Its very telling how the wealthy Mr and Mrs Park use the cheap panties to fetishize the poor while they get each other off on the sofa - Mrs Park even moans, “buy me drugs” because to her privileged mind, drugs are associated with the lower class only.

More on the fetishization, its interesting how the Parks spoil their son with Native American paraphernalia. They can afford their son a Red Indian tent or bow and arrow, but they have no interest in the history and culture of the people. Its just a cute aesthetic to them. The Parks expose our hypocrisy: how often do we wear or see others wear some t-shirt with the face of a freedom fighter like Che Guevara or a punk band like Black Flag? Merchandise people wear purely for fashion without second thought about the anticonformity message on display!

This doesn't mean the Parks are malicious caricatures. They just live a comfortable life afforded to them by the hard labour of others; and have the luxury of being indifferent to the suffering of those they deem lesser. The developed urban areas are so far removed from the slums. So the "smell" of the Kims is a reminder to the Parks that suffering exists beyond their walls. The Parks would rather remain in their privileged bubble, than face the reality outside. We the audience are not so dissimilar; we too get to consume our gadgets without need to think hard on how it was manufactured by exploited workers in sweatshops overseas.

When Mr Park wonders if the Native American tent will leak from the pouring rain, Mrs Park assures him it won't since it was imported from the US. It's never said out loud, but the Parks have this yearning to be accepted by Western standards. Cultural hegemony favours the ruling class and compels people to aspire to the dominant culture (Western culture to be exact). All the characters who die in this movie are the ones who alter themselves to fit into this higher socioeconomic status. Whether its Ki-Jung who her own family even admits feels more at home in the Park's house, or Moon Gwan who expresses admiration for the house's architecture, and half the Parks who code switch to come off more "Eurocentric". It's almost as if Bong is saying that living beyond one's means will literally kill you!

Aside all the fluid filmmaking and universal subject matter of inequality, Parasite is a story pulling from the writer-director's real life. Like Ki-woo, Bong in his college years tutored a rich family (a very common job in Korea). He landed the gig because his girlfriend (now his wife) was teaching Korean to that family, and she brought Bong along since the rich kid was in need of a math tutor. The kid would show him the family's private sauna and other luxuries. Bong felt like he was getting a peep into the lives of strangers, and he felt a perverse guilty pleasure from that. Of course Bong didn't sneak in his family members into that family like the Kims, but his fascination with the secret life of the wealthy stayed with him years later. Scorsese was right: "the most personal is the most creative!"


P.S: Notice Moon Gwan rings on that bell and introduces us to the bunker around the 1 hr 6 minute mark - EXACTLY at the midway point of this 2hr 12 minute film! That's exactly when the movie metamorphs into something darker. Coincidence? I think NOT!
440. Yorum: giving bong joon-ho the awards he really deserved for this movie was the ONLY thing the academy have ever done right
441. Yorum: The cockroaches, scurrying about in the dark corners of my soul, scatter as I am bathed in the warm glow of Bong Joon-ho's brilliance. Hollywood is dead. Long live our new Korean overlords.
I mean, I've fucked with Bong Joon-ho before, so I knew I was in for something special, even before this became the most hyped film of the decade, but I think I saw the face of God while watching this, and I'm an atheist.
- .-. ..- . / -.- .. -. --- .-.-.- / -... --- -. --. / .... .. ...- . / ..-. --- .-. / .-.. .. ..-. . .-.-.-
442. Yorum: 
443. Yorum: Parasite is a masterpiece. A drakly funny, superbly directed movie that flawlessly combines many tones and genres and delivers social commentary in a way that's thrilling and always entertaining.
Goergeously shot, incredibly acted and masterfully written. This is a movie destined to be talked about for decades. The most deserving Best Picture winner since Schindler's List.
Some of My Favorite Movies
444. Yorum: if i had all this i would be kinder
445. Yorum: If you make a plan, life just doesn’t work out that way.
Every now and then I worry that the world might be running out of original ideas. Then a movie like Parasite comes along and reassures me that everything’s going to be alright.
The best thing about this film is that every character has their own perspective and yet there’s no easy answers for any of them.
Bonus Points for that amazing house.

Cinematic Time Capsule - 2019 Ranked
446. Yorum: A light, brisk jog; amps up into a tense, strenuous sprint; only to blindside you, tackle you, send you careening to the floor. It’s sleek and precise and exhilarating; Bong Joon-Ho flexes his directorial prowess with this beast of a film. Nothing hits the fan the way Korean cinema does.
447. Yorum: HOLY FUCK I AM SPEECHLESS. THIS IS THE LITERALLY THE BEST FILM OF 2019. THIS BETTER GET SOME FUCKING RECOGNITION AT THE 2020 AWARD SEASON PLEASE I AM !!!!!! THIS WAS A TRIP AND WORTH EVERY SINGLE MINUTE.... GUYS, WHAT THE FUCK! EVERYONE PLEASE WATCH THIS MASTERPIECE ASAP
added to: 2019 ranked
448. Yorum: anyone else feeling nostalgic for the 2019/2020 awards season?
449. Yorum: Society do be like that tho
450. Yorum: why yes, i won best picture, how could you tell?
451. Yorum: Yeah, all aboard the hype train. This one is pretty sick.
I don't think I've enjoyed the pacing in a movie as much as I have this one (so far this year) and it's truly a shame considering all the 2 hour messes I've had to sit through.
The acting was great and it obviously looked rich as hell.
My only gripe is with the party scene. But the ending got me right in the feelings. Who knows. I can see this one being a five star with a rewatch.
GOOD CINEMA!
452. Yorum: one thing I really appreciated about Okja and Snowpiercer is how Bong Joon-ho constructs stories that can serve as clear and shamelessly unsubtle metaphor while also being genuinely engaging narratives and this is no exception.
the story of a scam gone too far and then so much further, Parasite is an exercise in anger, sometimes righteous and sometimes vague and directionless, its first act is a masterfully constructed performance of reputation and power imbued with a sense that it cannot last forever and the rest of the film responds to that tension with increasingly unexpected answers. Parasite is a fascinating study of class and what it means to have a plan and a genuinely moving story about a family trying to find happiness through what the society they live in has told them it looks like.
across the board perfect performances but beyond that there's a brilliant chemistry behind every single interaction that means even deception feels warm and homely on the surface. it's also genuinely hilarious, a few jokes got a round of applause of their own and the whole script has this incredible control of the tensions it's building so that even the most lowkey scenes had me on the edge of my seat. there's a turning point at roughly the end of the first act that is absolutely chilling and from this point Parasite is in a very good way a totally different film that I'm so glad I wasn't prepared for.
good movie.
453. Yorum: I've never paused a movie so many damn time.
Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece Parasite is a gift that keep on giving. A chaotic comedy thriller drama that builds its character while presenting a darkly humorous structure of class divide. Satirical movies often is indulged with interesting character arcs and intelligent plots that disrubs and compels at the same time, but Parasite's layered twists and superbly tense last 40 mins is entertaining at least, enthralling at most. The cast's performance is great too.
454. Yorum: Black and white/monochrome cut
The first time I watched Parasite, I was pulled in by the gorgeous scenery, the beautiful Mrs. Park , and the sharp contrasting bursts of color. While I still viewed this film as a biting critique of capitalism, my view was clouded with the aesthetic appeal, and the gauche lifestyle of the uber-rich Park family. The bubbly colors and welcoming facade made them seem nicer and more sympathetic.
That’s what’s so masterful in this cut of Parasite, Bong Joon Ho strips away this false reality through removing the colors, leaving The Parks and the Kims aesthetically the same. This makes it easier to see the human side of Parasite. The two families presented in the most basic and primal way possible. Stripped away from their wealth, and freed from their destitution through the removal of color.
When the visual representation of wealth, the colorful house, the beauty of Mrs. Park, the extravagant foods, the well coordinated clothing are stripped away, The Parks no longer seem sympathetic whatsoever. They lose their charm and perceived generosity, instead they just seem pretentious, oblivious, narcissistic, and dull witted. When the destitution and need of the Kim’s is slipped away all that is left is the greed, the self interest, and the hatred. With all of the frills gone Parasite seems like less of a battle between the rich and the poor, and more like a battle between human nature and the system that utilizes it to make us tear each-other apart.
455. Yorum: 
456. Yorum: you forget the first part of this movie is just HILARIOUS?
457. Yorum: WHAT CAN I REALLY SAY I MEAN
458. Yorum: imagine me sitting in the toilet cubicle at work refreshing the academy’s twitter page 100 times and realising they got best picture right for once
459. Yorum: John's Oscars 2020
This is based purely off of the films that were actually eligible for the Oscars this year, so that's why 'High Life' and 'Climax' are not on this list. Not a bad year for the Oscars though, lots of really nice surprises. Probably the best this year's awards could've turned out, based on these nominations at least.
Best Picture:
The Lighthouse (Winner)
Parasite
Uncut Gems
Ad Astra
The Irishman
1917
A Hidden Life
Joker
The Last Black Man in San Francisco
Best Director:
Robert Eggers (The Lighthouse) (Winner)
Bong Joon-ho (Parasite)
The Safdie Brothers (Uncut Gems)
James Gray (Ad Astra)
Martin Scorsese (The Irishman)
Best Original Screenplay:
The Lighthouse (Robert Eggers, Max Eggers) (Winner)
Parasite (Bong Joon-ho, Han Jin-won)
Ad Astra (Ethan Gross, James Gray)
Uncut Gems (The Safdie Brothers, Ronald Bronstein)
The Last Black Man in San Francisco (Joe Talbot, Rob Richert, Jimmie Fails)
Best Adapted Screenplay:
The Irishman (Steven Zaillian) (Winner)
Jojo Rabbit (Taika Waititi)
Joker (Todd Phillips, Scott Silver)
Dark Waters (Mario Correa, Matthew Michael Carnahan)
Little Women (Greta Gerwig)
Best Actor:
Robert Pattinson (The Lighthouse) (Winner)
Brad Pitt (Ad Astra)
Robert De Niro (The Irishman)
Zac Efron (Extremely Wicked, Shockingly Evil and Vile)
Adam Sandler (Uncut Gems)
Best Actress:
Elisabeth Moss (Her Smell) (Winner)
Scarlett Johansson (Marriage Story)
Cho Yeo-jeong (Parasite)
Honor Swinton Byrne (The Souvenir)
Florence Pugh (Midsommar)
Best Supporting Actor:
Brad Pitt (Once Upon a Time in Hollywood) (Winner)
Willem Dafoe (The Lighthouse)
Joanathan Majors (The Last Black Man in San Francisco)
Zac Efron (The Beach Bum)
Tommy Lee Jones (Ad Astra)
Best Supporting Actress:
Zhao Shuzhen (The Farewell) (Winner)
Laura Dern (Marriage Story)
Park So-dam (Parasite)
Valerie Pachner (A Hidden Life)
Nicole Kidman (Bombshell)
Best Cinematography:
The Lighthouse (Jarin Blaschke) (Winner)
Ad Astra (Hoyte van Hoytema)
Parasite (Hong Kyung Pyo)
Uncut Gems (Darius Khondji)
A Hidden Life (Jörg Widmer)
Best Original Score:
The Lighthouse (Mark Korven) (Winner)
Ad Astra (Max Richter)
Parasite (Jeong Jae-il)
Uncut Gems (Daniel Lopatin)
A Hidden Life (James Newton Howard)
Best Production Design:
The Lighthouse (Winner)
Joker
Parasite
Ad Astra
Once Upon a Time in Hollywood
Best Visual Effects:
Ad Astra (Winner)
Star Wars: The Rise of Skywalker
The Lion King
Avengers: Endgame
The Irishman
Best Editing:
The Lighthouse (Winner)
Ad Astra
Parasite
1917
Once Upon a Time in Hollywood
Best Costume Design:
The Lighthouse (Winner)
Once Upon a Time in Hollywood
Jojo Rabbit
Ad Astra
Joker
Best Makeup and Hair-styling:
The Lighthouse (Winner)
The King
Joker
The Irishman
Once Upon a Time in Hollywood
Best Sound Editing
The Lighthouse (Winner)
Ford V Ferrari
1917
Ad Astra
Once Upon a Time in Hollywood
Best Sound Mixing
Ad Astra (Winner)
1917
The Lighthouse
Ford V Ferrari
Joker
Best International Film:
Parasite (Winner)
Monos
Pain and Glory
Portrait of a Lady on Fire
Bacurau
Best Animated Feature Film:
I Lost My Body (Winner)
Klaus
Missing Link
Toy Story 4
The Lego Movie 2: The Second Part
Ruben Brandt, Collector
460. Yorum: Quick expansion/clarification of an idea from my original, more thorough review:
So we know what the Park family are being punished for by the cinematic violence done to them (they're rich, they're the parasite), but what did the poor Kim family do to deserve their punishment? Why does Kim Ki-taek end up in the basement, presumably forever? We can find a clue in the meaning of their last name: "Kim" means gold, and while the Kim family starts with little to no wealth, once they get a taste for it they become greedy for more, and as is made clear in the scene where they get drunk in the Park house while the family is out, they would be happy living this bourgeois lifestyle. The Kim family is punished for being class traitors.
(Bong Joon-ho does this thing in most of his movies where he begins with essentially sympathetic protagonists and then problematizes their position, the clearest example being the detectives in Memories of Murder, who are trying to solve a case of serial rape but who use violent torture methods on someone with a mental disability. I think the only one of his films I've seen without this complexity of its protagonist is Okja?)
2019 | Bong Joon-ho
461. Yorum: has anyone seen this...?
462. Yorum: when your circle small but yall crazy!!!!!!!
463. Yorum: a felicidade de pobre dura pouco
464. Yorum: cannot believe that less than a year ago this won the best picture at the oscars????? time isn’t real
465. Yorum: nothing but the utmost fucking respect for this year’s best picture winner holy shit
466. Yorum: The performances sucked me into every bizarre fold. The writing was always surprising but wildly efficient. Also, what an impressive feat to weave between such disparate tones with such skill. This is a film I imagine I'll keep thinking about.
467. Yorum: im not saying its bad or anything i just think i couldve done a better job
468. Yorum: 
469. Yorum: .....oh.....MY......GOD?!?!?!
470. Yorum: **Mild Spoilers Ahead**
Rich vs Poor
When looking at the lives of the poor, rich people would only feel pity, maybe show a little compassion but they would not understand it. They can bestow favors to the needy by compensating them for their services and saying a few words of encouragement to make the less fortunate feel better. The rich can only do so much. Let’s just say you go downtown and you give a beggar that you spot scrounging on the pavement a few pennies as a way to express sympathy for their hardship but you do not understand what it is like having to beg for money to live. No matter how generous the rich may be, the gap between them and the poor can never be abridged but instead widens as time goes on. Mr. Park has drawn an invisible line for himself so that he could establish spatial awareness between him and his employee - "we're paying you overtime, so think of it as part of your work" - and in the meantime building a hierarchal structure that separates him and his family, the 1%, from the rest. However, the parasite(s) do not get this because they forever need a host to latch onto. So once their spaces become overlapped, things are only going to get uglier and violence is bound to happen. It’s inevitable. It’s inescapable. Even if the Kims didn’t set their feet over the line, their smells would eventually find a way to cross over to the Parks and the Parks comments would also find their way back to the Kims.
Poor vs Poor
Money is everything. Money can change a person. Money can iron out all the creases. If you had money, you’d be kinder. Money is what we fight for despite knowing that it’s a double-edged sword. It pits the needy against each other in a game of survival. So when Mrs. Kim compares her husband to a cockroach that scampers away whenever the owner switches on the lights, she pares the sad truth to its bone. The reaction of Mr. Kim when he hears this remark is genuine and his anger begins to take shape - Anger rubbed off, reddened by shame and so when he says, “I fooled you didn't I?” while the other family members try to laugh it off only further proves the point. The conflict that later arises between them and the other poor family (basement dwellers) in the second half of the film is like a tug of war between rats and roaches. Since these two sides are both standing on the same bottom rung of the hierarchy, there is still a sense of sympathy residing among these people, and unlike the rich, this level of sympathy developed because of their mutual understanding of the opposite party. They are all the same, badly off, rotten in the ground with the subway smells obstinately clinging onto their clothes, their flesh. I've fallen head over heels with how Bong portrayed poverty, but I wondered if the movie managed to emotionally affect the 1 percenters who have seen the film as hard as it hit the other 99% - Rich people may flash a little compassion at the poor, but they can never understand them.
“They are rich but still nice”
xxx
“They are nice because they are rich. If I had all of this I would be kinder”
471. Yorum: i don’t even know what to say, this is just so perfect it speaks for itself. not a single flaw in sight, just a cinematic masterpiece being a cinematic masterpiece. i love cinema
472. Yorum: Talk about living up to the hype. One crucial scene in the third act does give me a little pause but perhaps that will iron out in rewatches. Bong Joon-ho's command over his craft is second to none. Not a single wasted moment here. Love the way he telegraphs the narrative through very small details. Also, hilarious and shocking. Took until the second half for me to get into the full swing of things then it wouldn't let go.
Very excited to mention I have an interview with Mr. Bong too. Will probably be brief, but it's something.
Edit: Voila!
473. Yorum: There’s literally nothing I can say that hasn’t already been said about this masterpiece. Truly a phenomenon with quite possibly the best writing in any film I’ve seen. That garden party scene is fucking incredible oh my god. Fuck all those mfs that don’t give this a 5 star rating what else do you need??
474. Yorum: i tried watching parasite a million times but i couldn't get past 30 mins of it but today i forced myself to watch it throughout the end and my expectations were high but goddamn. the directing of this film and the acting was absolutely phenomenal... it deserves every oscar win they earned back in 2020. i thought parasite was a horror film but it was more intense and a thriller film and while watching throughout the first hour i was kinda bored but i like the part where everyone practices to get recruited and show the family that they have experience in every field of their work... especially ki-jung like she fucking impressed me lmaooo she was just so great with teaching the kid lmaooo. i didn't like the slow storyline but then i realized that it builds character development (?) for every character which i liked.
the last 50-40 mins of the film was really intense and what the actual fuck? i was just really shooked. this film was great but no i won't be rewatching this ever again but i'll recommend it to my friends loll. one of my friends have watched this film a bunch of times tho.
475. Yorum: It's Parasite. What else did you expect?
476. Yorum: wow
477. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho is back.
Parasite is a wild fucking ride.
478. Yorum: why do other movies even exist
479. Yorum: Dad, today I made a plan - a fundamental plan. I'm going to earn money, a lot of it. University, a career, marriage, those are all fine, but first I'll earn money. When I have money, I'll buy the house. On the day we move in, Mom and I will be in the yard. Because the sunshine is so nice there. All you'll need to do is walk up the stairs. Take care until then. So long.
I'm such a sucker for doomed-hopeful movie endings. Where the character is expressing some kind of promise for the future that contrasts with what you're actually seeing, where you can feel the heartbreak in real time. You know they're doomed. Maybe they even know they're doomed. But they're pushing onward with hope in their heart because there's no other choice. I think of Spike Lee's 25th Hour as the ultimate example, where our protagonist's father unspools an entire lifetime of quiet success as they hit the highway together, dreaming of escape, a new identity, raising a family in a new state... only for the camera to pull up and reveal the state penitentiary exit is fast approaching, for us to realize that the man is simply going to prison and that it's all just a dream after all.
I imagine that the reason these denouements tend to grab me by the soul is that they're so painfully relatable. Happily ever after is something we all want, but this is something we actually know in our hearts.
In the case of Parasite, it's perfect because this is the condition all of us working class folks live under all the time. We know this system can eat us alive and we know that we'll never magically bootstrap ourselves and our families into the upper class. We know that at any moment, a health crisis or a lost job might send us out into the streets, shatter all the momentum we've built up in our adult lives toward a sustainable future. It sucks, but wallowing in it sucks even more. So we carry on, we keep working, we promise ourselves things will work out, and we hold out hope. Sometimes, things do work out, after all. Right?
So glad I revisited. What a beautiful, bleak, fucking hilarious picture from one of my favorite directors.
Bong Joon-ho movies ranked
480. Yorum: Parasite’s immaculate level of balancing the themes of growing class tensions in modern society, supported by it’s tones of gripping horror, dark comedy and high suspense is so remarkably engaging that it very quickly reaches a state of perfection of which I’ve never been under so much anxiety and stress while watching a film. 
Bong Joon-ho’s genius of manipulation on the audiences expectations, is a masterclass in writing, screenplay, and everything incorporated in it’s presentation. Each and every scene means something, figuratively and metaphorically, and utilizes every frame with an immense level of emotion and presence that constantly serves the story and it’s characters.
Parasite perfectly executes the experience and message it is trying to portray, and genuinely made one of my favourite experiences watching a movie. I’ve never been so tense and on the edge of my seat, I permanently had my hands on my head, and my jaw on the floor. I couldn’t take my eyes off the screen.
It’s baffling to me how this works as well as it does, because it’s one of the only films I could say is flawless in every aspect, and these types of films don’t come around often. 
Insane.
9.5 uncomfortable sofa scenes out of 10. 🪨
481. Yorum: 
482. Yorum: i had pretty high expectations, seeing that this is the number one movie on this app. somehow they were exceeded.
483. Yorum: Imagine hearing this film so absolutely phenomenal and one of if not the greatest film ever made and having a ton of opportunities to watch it and waiting 2 years to watch it. Couldn’t be me…
Anyways, so I finally watched Parasite. I was expecting a phenomenal movie, BUT HOLY CRAP THATS ONE OF THE BEST FILMS I’VE EVER WATCHED. I mean, it’s a pure work of brilliance. The plot, the characters, the cinematography, the themes, everything is great about it. The story was absolutely insane. It leads you one way, carefully, guiding you safely, then out of nowhere, BOOM! You’re just dropped out of nowhere, and you’re shocked at what unfolds, and so curious. It works incredibly effectively. And it’s so unique. It’s creative, original, and brilliant. The acting so also great. The fact that nobody got nominated for an Oscar is atrocious. Everyone gives nuanced, deep, and clever performances. The cinematography is great too. Lots of unique angles, perspectives, and uses of different cameras throughout. It’s themes are also great. Don’t get me wrong, it’s super depressing to think about, but it executes it well, and makes you think about it. I mean, what can I say? It’s Parasite. It’s a perfect movie. It’s too good. If you haven’t, watch it now. I love this movie. It’s too good. 
Top 48 favorite films of all time
🔙 Shang Chi and the Legend of the 10 Rings
🔜 Duel
484. Yorum: ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT. Just when you think you have the movie out planned, it takes you on a rollercoaster ride with so much hidden depth and meaning. Your head will be thinking about the movie for a while. 5 stars.
485. Yorum: Yes this is my first time watching Parasite I'm so embarrassed 😭😭
Literally jaw droppingly good. Our takeaway arrived within the last 20 minutes and I could barely touch it because I was so enthralled with the film.
Fantastic cast, always a pleasure to see Song Kang Ho, plugging Thirst (2009) if anyone wants to see more of him!
486. Yorum: Third time watching. 
Still as amazing as everyone says.
Best picture of 2019 regardless of what the Oscars may or may not say.
487. Yorum: This is the most “non-boring” movie I have ever seen in my entire life. Like, how is it possible for somebody to not find this entertaining? HOW?
In 2013, acclaimed South Korean director Bong Joon-ho released his science-fiction thriller Snowpiercer—a SEVERELY underrated wonder that used a never-ending train as a metaphorical abstraction of a social ladder. It was an event that employed its post-apocalyptic setting, a world where it was nearly too damn cold for people to thrive on, to show that, no matter the situation, hierarchy would always remain relevant among humans. All though, these implications were important for the very subjects the film was cold-bloodedly judging (people), they were arguably patent. The picture came off as fairly surface-leveled commentary. It was as if the film was a warm-up for what was to come six years down the road…
Parasite is essentially Joon-ho taking on this theme of “class” for a second batting. This time around, however, the memo feels more obscured by the dim and contrasting ideologies of its fluctuating characters. The movie sets out to explore its title (Parasite) to the fullest degree, paralleling the poor life to a set of anguished insects but using the rich personas as the guilty initiators of the infectious swarm.
From themes of intelligence over riches to ego vs. priorities, Parasite contrives to say so much without feeling overly preachy—which is a tricky maneuver to pull off. It’s a duel, full-course meal that lets you enjoy while simultaneously letting you suffer in the most inconceivably menacing approach imaginable. Through a three-act structure like no other, each act invokes a new theme, a new idea, all surrounding the central concept of social status. But most fatally, each segment conducts divergent tones, ultimately stirring a sufficient blend of mixed emotions and further creating the psychological detriments that Parasite delivers so devilishly to its audience.
Parasite is a checklist for a masterpiece, honestly. Stainless casting? Check. Cinematography that’ll make your insides riddle with anticipation. Check. One of the shrewdest scripts of ALL-TIME. Check. Holy original Bong Joon-ho execution? Check. Somehow, a film made by one of South Korea’s greatest directors of all-time found a way to surpass expectations. It’s a baffling, cinematic affair if I’d ever seen one.
Parasite manages to be the funniest, darkest, and the most persuasive film of 2019, thus far. It’s a theater experience like no other, that leads you in about five different directions, with five different presumptions, until it becomes so uncontrollably maddening that it leaches through the viewers’ bodies like a dirty, pesky bug. It’s game-changing, frankly. I don’t think I’ve ever seen a movie quite as riveting as Parasite in years.
🏆 Verdict: A+
All-Time Favorites, The Victors of the 2010s, 2019 Ranked
488. Yorum: thank you, bong joon-ho, for blessing me with this masterpiece
489. Yorum: I was given great advice about Parasite: "read nothing, go in blind, trust Joon-ho Bong." You should follow that advice too and just go see it.
If you wants some further thoughts on it, here's what I'll share. Parasite is a brilliant interplay of scathing social commentary, horrific violence, uproarious humor, and trenchant character drama. I'm almost at a loss to describe the film. It feels as though the best elements of Shoplifters, Burning, The Dinner Game, Ready or Not, and every heist movie ever were tossed into a blender and sprinkled liberally with doses of black humor. Joon-ho Bong is a truly a mad craftsman here at the very height of his power.
The cast is uniformly strongly and, most compelling, even the most apparently revolting characters are humanized in key ways. The theatrical translation is witty and excellent. There's a ton to unpack here - the sort of stuff best held for serious film criticism and not quick reviews and rankings. Parasite is one of the very best films of the year.
2019: First to Worst
490. Yorum: "Respect!"
I believe it is more conducive to go into this blind, so I'll keep this review short. Bong Joon-ho has managed to capture all the complexity of our present moment in time and spit it back out at us in multidimensional form. It all flew by so quickly, that as soon as it ended, I just wanted to experience the whole thing over again. There have been so many extraordinary films to drop this year, but Parasite deserves the most buzz. If you only go out to the theater once this year, make it this one.
491. Yorum: when the wife talked about cockroaches, only for the husband to end up living like a cockroach in the house. Damn.
492. Yorum: Le fait que l’on ne comprenne pas du tout la bande-annonce - c’est très intelligent .
on voit son amour pour le cinéma ainsi que sa culture cinématographique. Il innove avec ses changements allant d'une simple comédie à un thriler en passant par un film d'horreur ,
Je recommande totalement car on ne sait pas à quoi s’attendre .

The fact that we don’t understand at all the trailer - it’s too smart .
we see his love for cinema as well as his cinematographic culture. He innovates with these changes ranging from a simple comedy to a thriler to a horror movie,
I totally recommend because we don't know what to expect .
493. Yorum: FINALLY I WAS ABLE TO WATCH THIS MASTERPIECE!!! 
At certain moments, anxiety rode on my back and clinched onto my ankles like a hyperactive child who just wants to play all day. THIS MOVIE IS SMART, SHARP, WITTY, CREATIVE, BEAUTIFUL. EVERY FREAKING POSITIVE ADJECTIVE IN THE VOCABULARY.
Every moment was better than the next. Finally a movie lived up to its hype this year for me. Wow. This is what I call a masterpiece. I honestly don’t even know what else to say, it was literally perfect. 
I’m rooting for this haaarrrrdddd at the oscars 
💚🤍💚🤍💚🤍💚🤍💚🤍💚🤍💚🤍💚🤍💚🤍💚🤍💚🤍
494. Yorum: 
495. Yorum: One of the greatest films ever made. Films with such originality & brilliance only come every so often.
496. Yorum: Believe the hype. PARASITE is a masterpiece on so many levels. It is a black comedy, a thriller, a horror, a social satire and has a deep socio-economic statement that's timely.
An instant contender for film of the year.
497. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's least imaginative film to date, and (perhaps because of that fact) the least "Bong" film he's made. One of the things that make Bong's two international co-productions, Snowpiercer and Okja, so disappointing for me is the absence of geographical and political specificity in their critique of capitalism (and by extension, Bong’s own aesthetic specificities). In the case of Snowpiercer, Bong's commentary on class struggle is especially feeble precisely because his attack on the global capitalist order remains abstract. Okja arguably does a better job in this regard, but not by much. It seems to me that Bong has yet to recover from his international co-production malady in spite of the return to his home ground. I am baffled by David Ehrlich's vapid assertion that with Parasite, "Bong Joon-ho has become a genre unto himself." He might want to revisit Memories of Murder, The Host and Mother, and rethink what he wrote. At its worst, Parasite feels like a parody of Bong’s greatest hits. 
In one interview, Bong cites Chabrol's La Cérémonie, Losey's The Servant, and Kim Ki-young's The Housemaid as influences on Parasite. Unfortunately, his namedropping doesn't do much more than displaying his good taste. It is not that I could not find any connections between Parasite and these three films. I could, especially on a thematic level. However, what Parasite has to say about class relations is so superficial and cynical that I start to wonder what it is that Bong took away from the three indisputable masterworks.
Of the three films mentioned, The Housemaid is the most essential—in fact, Kim Ki-young's entire filmography is foundational to Bong's aesthetics. He has reappropriated Kim's brand of upstairs-downstairs drama and jet-black comedy to great effects in his better films. In Parasite, however, The Housemaid is more of a signpost than an inspiration. To me, the social structure in which the three family units in Parasite move around and how their movements are visually represented are reminiscent of Snowpiercer, not The Housemaid. Like Snowpiercer, Parasite is a "horizontal" film. The difference between the two, however, is that the train is in motion, whereas the luxurious mansion is motionless. This is where the cynicism I pointed out earlier comes from. The dubious ending of Snowpiercer aside, the fact that the train is a moving object signifies that the system is a historical entity—which is to say that change is a possibility. In Parasite, on the other hand, the system (the mansion) is essentially a transhistorical entity that is not liable to change. Yona and Timmy step outside the Snowpiercer; Ki-woo must perpetuate capitalist exploits in order to return to the mansion (though it is all for the sake of reuniting with his father). Contrary to what some critics (including Amy Taubin) believe, this is not a Marxist film, but a liberal left film.
Of course, I do not have to agree with a film's politics in order to appreciate it. However, I am not very impressed with Bong's technical achievements in Parasite either. It is rather deft of Bong to have left out Kiyoshi Kurosawa and Shohei Imamura when he discussed the artistic influences on his latest work. To be fair, he has repeatedly acknowledged his debt to the Japanese masters in the past. His Sight & Sound poll submission includes Cure and Vengeance is Mine. What I find interesting is that of all the films he has made thus far, Parasite is the film in which Bong tries the hardest to emulate the kind of grotesqueness and eeriness found in K. Kurosawa's and Imamura's works. Did Bong feel it was unnecessary to namedrop these two because he has done so many times in the past? Could it be that Bong forgot to do so? Or did he not want people to know where he was taking his ideas from? Only Bong knows the answer.
498. Yorum: today is my birthday and i decided to celebrate by watching a masterpiece!!
499. Yorum: "Still... you love her" - Kim Ki-taek,
4th Watch... 1 new observation
Cho Yeo-jeong is an absolute star in this and every time she has an exasperated gasping yell I laugh so hard. I love this movie so much.
500. Yorum: god it just gets better every time
501. Yorum: literally the best thing i’ve ever done for myself was go into this movie blind not knowing anything about the plot the first time i saw it. when it finished i was like well i could have predicted this to have gone a million different ways but no way in hell could i have predicted that
502. Yorum: parasite more like poop gangnam style
503. Yorum: 2019 Movies Ranked-HERE
This. This is a modern day masterpiece. Bong Joon-ho’s flawless thriller tragicomedy keeps you guessing till the film’s conclusion. With spectacular visuals and stunning performances from Choi Woo-shik and Kang-Ho Song (along with many others), Parasite displays the difference in social class that most films strive for but ultimately fail, John Nugent who writes for Empire put it best “A miracle of a film” that’s exactly what it is. A small Korean film that’s taken over the western world.
Parasite is a thought provoking film that’s best watched knowing nothing about it. Having walked into this film only watching the trailer once I didn’t know what to expect, therefore I was pleasantly surprised by the last 40 minutes, the twists and turns as well as the acting and social commentary, gives Parasite an edge that makes it stand out above other 2019 films. 
This movie will surely become a classic in the near future and well deserved it will be. 
5/5
504. Yorum: Don’t watch any of the trailers and don’t read anything about it before watching it. Considering that, I’ll try to be as vague as possible in this review.
I haven’t seen a film like this in a long time. It was fascinating to watch how the film was unexpectedly unraveling whilst juggling many different genres and many different characters. That’s always a risky thing to do. Many films fail while trying to be many different genres at once, but this film pulled it off perfectly. I won’t go too much into details, just watch it for yourself and enjoy it.
This was the best-directed film of the year without any questions. I’m not the biggest fan of Bong Joon-Ho (although I’ve only seen his two American films) but this film was a masterclass in directing, and I truly hope he’ll get an Oscar nomination. His shot selection was excellent, and he always managed to pull out most out of a cadre. Suspense sequences were extremely suspense because of the way he framed them, same goes for dramatic and comedic sequences. Furthermore, the blocking was excellent. Whenever you have more than a few people at one place, you get a great sense of space and who is placed where. Usage of space, in general, was perfect, and he always pulled out the maximum from filming locations. Every shot of his tells some story. E.g. (maybe small spoilers) when certain characters are returning back to home at rainy night, you can see a great comparison and beautiful transition from higher class to lower class just from looking at his shot selection. He delivers a message of the film and he tells us what’s a film about just from framing the sequence.
Furthermore, he pulled out fantastic performances from every actor. The film balances a very thin line with the main family. They could’ve been unlikable characters very easily, but because of their performances, they managed to successfully walk on that tiny line.
I only have one issue with this film. I felt the ending of the film was detached from the rest of the film. The end itself didn’t have as strong punch as it could’ve, and I would say the film should’ve ended 5-10 minutes earlier. Whilst watching it, it felt like a short film added to a feature film. Maybe that won’t be an issue on a rewatch, but looking at it right now, that’s my only gripe with it.
In the end, this is a huge recommendation from me, especially if you don’t know anything about the film. That way, you’ll be on an extremely wild ride with it.
505. Yorum:  "Você sabe que tipo de plano nunca falha?Nenhum plano… você sabe por quê? Porque a vida não pode ser planejada"
Meus amigos, o que eu acabei de assistir não foi coisa que não se preze não vius. Nossa sim, é verídico o que 99% das pessoas que conferiram Parasita afirmam: o filme é uma obra prima inigualável de Bong Joon-ho e me arrisco a dizer que é um dos maiores do cinema mundial.
Este é um longa que não enrola e vai direto ao ponto, explora todo o seu potencial e entrega uma qualidade e originalidade absurdas, jamais vistas ou não tão exploradas em muitos filmes da atualidade.
O filme desenvolve sem rodeios, logo de cara a desigualdade social trazida pela influência do capitalismo na Coreia do Sul, aonde vemos com clareza, a situação trágica e caótica de quem reside nas periferias das cidades do país. Acompanhamos uma família pobre que vive em uma dessas periferias e que sobrevive a partir da inteligência que se sobressae por cima da ingenuidade e burrice de uma família rica. Pode ser uma premissa meio sem graça e já usada algumas vezes, porém o Jong-ho transforma isso em algo gigante e extraordinário que confunde sua cabeça em alguns momentos, aonde o espectador fica ao certo sem saber quem de fato é o parasita ali, se é a família pobre ou a família rica. 
O background de todos os personagens é cuidadosamente crescente ao decorrer das 2h12min de Parasita, isso é tempo o suficiente para o Jong-ho se atentar com e desenrolar da história com a ajuda de um roteiro super coesivo e, para utilizar-se desses mesmos mecanismos para desenvolver todos aqueles que ficam entorno da história. O que mais me chamou atenção nos persongens foi a imprevisibilidade deles, que a cada cena em que eles estão, tudo meio que vai se esclarecendo ou acabando confundindo ainda mais quem está assistindo, devido a grande surpresas que Jong-ho deve está privando a nós.
Parasita é um filme criado claramente para expor a separação entre classes, poiso filme passa uma mensagem muito importante sobre as diferenças entre pobres e ricos e também, uma reflexão sobre a família rica também ser parasita, mesmo que de uma forma diferente. Entretanto, não consigo ver dessa forma, pois mesmo considerando que passa realmente uma mensagem subjetiva, não dá para relativizar atitudes totalmente inescrupulosas por parte da família pobre, assim como não dá pra fingir que a família rica também fazia tudo certo… Acho que Bong Jong-ho também pensaria assim… 
506. Yorum: The Parasitic master Bong Joon-ho: Ranked!
"If you make a plan, life never works out that way."
Bong Joon-ho always knows how to crush our spirits with his endings, doesn't he? He didn't even bother to put the line above at the ending, he'd much rather let us think "oh yes there's a chance - no matter how small - that his plan to buy the house will work" but then you remember the placement of the line I've put above earlier in the film...
I'm going to refrain from writing my usual kind of reviews because well, what's the point with this film? So instead I'm going to attempt to sound clever and try to decipher the little that I can from this film made by no mere mortal like me. So this review might be a bit jumbled and hell I might even get the complete wrong idea with some things but let's see what I can come up with.
When such a rigid class structure is present in society, you've got those less fortunate fending for themselves and those with the most having the wealth to be nice to people (although only those who they actually see). While the Park's enjoy their time camping - in others words, disconnected and out of touch from society - the Kim family (the working class who become forced to turn to criminality) and the husband and wife who are literally and metaphorically trapped in the Park's lives and their house, are left to fight over the quality of their lives deep down below the lavish house above. The cause of all the fighting in the first place - the trapped husband - is a result of the obliviousness of the upper class Park family, who also lack the knowledge of the lower class who have the ingenuity to see morse code. And on top of that, the main reason for the hiding of the secret basement is because the last owner was so embarrassed to look cowardly and weak to have this hiding place that he sealed it up and didn't mention it again. But what he leaves behind as a rich man is left for the working class to benefit off, and so we find Geun-se and Moon-gwang in the situation that they are in. Geun-se is only able to be in the (at first) fortunate position he is in because of what the rich architect left behind. Also, to be able to get into the Park's rich lifestyle in the first place, Ki-woo had to be recommended by his upper class friend Min, because it simply isn't possible for any mingling to randomly happen between the working class and upper classes; the upper classes have to approve of the lower class before allowing any interaction.
Another example of the ingenious wit in this film is the title. It would seem obvious that it refers to the Kim family, who are living off of the Park's gullibility, wouldn't it? But if like me you are an absolute genius...
You can see that it could also, and much more fittingly, refer to the rich. They hire all these workers for them because they would be incapable of living the life they want without them. They would have to live off the "awful" cooking of Mrs. Park, and when would they be able to do any house work if Mr. Park is always so busy and Mrs. Park is useless at it? They can't live their lives as they do without the work of the working class Kims, so in short, they too can be seen as parasites.
Yes I'm still going on, but I also noticed the irony of Ki-woo being bludgeoned by the stone that was said to help bring materialistic wealth to him. Once he gains that though, it comes back to hit him. The timing of the stone and the sudden employment of Ki-woo shows that the stone may have proved its worth as it does seem to have brought material wealth, however the irony is that it also helps to bring about the end to it. Also, while the arrival of the stone is played for laughs (it being so "metaphorical" and the mother saying that "food would have been better" in such a matter of fact way), I think it represents another thing - how out of touch the rich can be. Rather than being genuinely helpful Min's grandfather decided it is of utmost importance to deliver a useless token; a mere collectible, that even happens to ruin Ki-woo's plan at the end. Also I just love how Bong Joon-ho gets comedy out of the characters being in awe of how "metaphorical" the rock is and yet it actually is a metaphor that Joon-ho has created.
On this second viewing I found it impossible to stay relaxed (I found it hard to even laugh at the comedy this time). The first viewing was nice, funny and calm until THAT tonal shift (which may be the best shift in tone in all of cinema) after which I was in a disturbed state for the rest of the film, because it was so unexpected. This time however I found it impossible to be at ease at all because I knew what was coming up. Rewatching this now I realise that what Bong Joon-ho is trying to say is that this tumbling of society is inevitable and that it's pretty obvious that it's going to happen when you look deeper into society, because it's just constantly uncomfortable viewing this time around. Just look at the French Revolution, once you look back and see that the cause of such a violent outburst was because of such a rigid class system then it becomes clear that in these kinds of systems in the world it's just a suspenseful waiting game of when it will happen again if things don't change. Honestly it almost turns into a horror film once that basement is discovered - and what a tracking shot and frightening score to introduce it with, watching Chung-sook frantically descend into it is truly horrifying.
I hope you all don't mind the length of this (as this is by far my lengthiest review), sometimes I start writing and then lose track of how much I write, and then don't know what to get rid of. If I've got any of this right it's probably been said before but that just speaks to the brilliance of Parasite, it's just so ripe for exploring.
Anyway, 5 stars, although I was tempted to put it at 4.5 because the start feels a little too slow but I decided not to.
5 stars == Basically perfect.
Next I'm planning to soon finish rewatching the Johnny English films, watch the other two Bourne films, and I'm also planning to add Tom Cruise's Jack Reacher films to my Bourne Vs Wick list as well. And after enjoying going through the films of Bong Joon-ho so much I've decided to start going through another director's filmography soon - hint: he is Japanese.
507. Yorum: 
508. Yorum: the greatest movie of all time? idk ho maybe.. i don’t make the rules.
509. Yorum: you know that moment in parasite that goes from 0:00:00 to circa 2:07:11? wow what a moment i’ll never forget. that moment is the reason this film won the award for best original screenplay, international feature film, directing AND, for the first time in oscar history as a non-english language film, best picture. wow. what a time to be alive
510. Yorum: . ...- . -. / -... . - - . .-. / - .... . / ... . -.-. --- -. -.. / - .. -- . / .- .-. --- ..- -. -..
511. Yorum: Fevered class. The rich and the dreary, clear and front. Warm grazings of light and deceit, an establishment of clean. Pretty much everything I’d expect from a Bong hit. A mix of genre influence, a heavy thematic energy, and overwhelming charm and poetic visage, but unfortunately this was a movie where the hype was so immense and extreme that I only came out disappointed that I didn’t really see what anyone else is seeing. To me, it’s just a good movie from a great director. There’s nothing exactly remarkable or life-changing about it. It’s such a beautifully shot and expertly written movie, tight and perfectly orchestrated by a man who’s a master of his craft. It’s just, sadly, Bong’s made much better movies. Am I glad that this is so loved by so many people? Yes. But do I also wish y’all had this same energy when Mother and The Host came out? Also yes.
512. Yorum: Imagine being allergic to peaches
513. Yorum: Hey guys, so im not logging this because I watched it. Im logging because me and my friend are trying to find a movie to watch and she may not want to watch of some of the movies I recommend (because they may be slow burn, or more so drama).
She wants something that will be a great thriller kinda keep you guessing or on your toes or a really funny comedy. SHes not a fan of slow pace and she does not want a foreign film. She also is not a fan of older movies so anything from 2000 and up. Preferably maybe even 2010 and up.
Can you help please? (I haven't seen too many films so im sure what you recommend I might not have seen but if I have I will say)
514. Yorum: alright STINKY mr. kim go to hell SMELLY
515. Yorum: I wrote about goddamn Parasite for The Film Stage. first review for that site, filled with spoilers, some of the work I’m most proud of. this is a huge opportunity for me and it’s something that couldn’t have happened without the support of my colleagues at Cinematary, who gave me a platform and constant support/advice. its because of them that I made it to London Film Festival and that I was able to get this article posted! if you’ve seen the movie, please give this a read and let me know what you think of it!



thefilmstage.com/features/how-bong-joon-hos-parasite-finds-the-humanity-and-tragedy-in-modern-society/
516. Yorum: The biggest smile swept across my face when Parasite won tonight and there’s nothing I want more than to watch this for the third time and continue to appreciate Bongs masterpiece!
Over the fucking moon with that win. 
The academy finally got it right. 
I’m so happy. 
Did ya’ll see Bong admire the hell out of that first Oscar trophy he got? Smitten.  🏆
517. Yorum: Parasite is a multi-genre masterwork, consistently escaping any categorization as its plot twists and turns and transforms like a Rubix cube, continually keeping both its protagonists and its audience on an uneven yet endlessly entertaining ground with a steady blend of satirical comedy, adrenalizing thrills, and sheer horror.
With its trailer set to debut tomorrow, I remain anxious to see how Neon decides to promote this film, as I went in without even the faintest knowledge of a simple logline, and I truly cannot recommend a similarly blind approach enough. As such, I will refrain from mentioning any details regarding the plot of Parasite in any capacity.
Thematically, Parasite tackles the sociocultural clash between impoverished family of Kim Ka-taek, his wife, and his two children, as they come to gradually interact with and intertwine their lives with the gloriously wealthy family of Mr. Park, an esteemed Korean architect. The film’s script, penned by its director, the well-regarded Bong Joon-ho, immediately places you in the thick of its protagonists’ struggles, immersing you in the dour environment that the family of Kim Ka-taek lives in. Joon-ho does this without ever feeling exploitative or manipulative in the slightest; you empathize these characters and find personally relatable aspects in their affable familial conversations, but this connection feels effortless and warranted. In addition, because you form this bond with the family at the center of the film so quickly, Parasite instantly establishes your commitment to their later questionable pursuits, so that their ever-escalating actions feel justified and understandable, even as the plot (expertly) spirals out of control. The script also wisely shies away from villianizing any character, and while a lesser film would’ve perhaps made pigs out of Mr. Park and his family, their characterizations are far more fleshed out and ambiguous than you would expect, and Joon-ho continually subverts your expectations with their expected reactions to events that occur in and around their house.
As the plot shifts from screwball comedy to mystery thriller to full out horror, it’s utterly astonishing how Joon-ho manages to keep such a masterful control over his tones and a tight restraint on his social commentary. The film never loses its grounding in reality, even despite some of the more outlandish reveals, and aside from possibly one or two extraneous scenes, it never falters in locking in its audience’s focus and gradually winding up its tension before letting everything erupt in the third act like a volcanic explosion. We are with Joon-ho throughout this entire journey, and most of this is due to the miraculously subtle yet effective character work established in the first 15 minutes; as noted before, because we care so much about the individuals being strained throughout these stressful circumstances, we never stop to question where Joon-ho is taking us, because we’re too focused on fearing for the protagonists’ well-being. Furthermore, while one may assume that Joon-ho’s messaging could get muddled between tonal shift to tonal shift (as other recent satirical social thrillers have faltered), this surprisingly sturdy commentary actually evolves alongside the tonally transformative plot, adding more and more subtext to its portrayal of the plight of the poor in South Korea and the indifference of the rich before delivering the death blow in those final 20 minutes (to say nothing of the utterly impactful epilogue).
Joon-Ho’s direction is just as dynamic as his writing, proving himself adept at altering his style from the way he shoots the broader comedic beats to the genuinely terrifying reveals that continue to arise after the one hour mark. Several scenes seem to establish Joon-ho as the successor to Hitchcock, if there ever was one. His ensemble is equally successful, as each balances the kaleidoscope of emotions demanded of them quite well, with no true weak link in the bunch. Song Kang-ho gets the most mature and shocking sequences as the patriarch of the family of Kim Ki-taek, while Lee Sun-kyun is the perfect opposite side of this same coin as the enigmatic Mr. Park, an eternally alluring figure who toys with your sympathies throughout the entire piece. The women are no slouches either, as Jang Hye-jin shines as the resourceful and rational wife of Kim Ki-taek, Choong-sook, while Cho Yeo-jeong is just as spellbinding in a more stereotypical housewife role as Mr. Park’s spouse, Yeon-kyo, whose undying innocence and innocuousness contrasts sharply with the brutality of the atmosphere of the film as a whole.
Parasite is a puzzle of a film - even when Joon-ho gives you all the pieces of his vision, it isn’t until everything snaps into place by the end of the film’s last scene that you finally realize the true gravity and brilliance of his game. It’s a story that I’m positive will reveals further rewards on future rewatches, and although it’s tough to discuss an d dissect in general terms, you will absolutely walk away with a greater sense of appreciation for Joon-ho’s intentions if you take this leap as blind as possible. 
Without a doubt, the foreign language film of the year.
Favorites
2019 Ranked
Best Picture Winners Ranked
Best Director Winners Ranked
Favorite Screenplays
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
Neon Ranked
518. Yorum: hu·mil·i·ate
/(h)yo͞oˈmilēˌāt/
to make (someone) feel ashamed and foolish by injuring their dignity and self-respect, especially publicly.
recommended by: haley and marquise
recommend me a film here
20x5 - directors // (17/100)
bong joon-ho (film 5)
lia's cast chart challenge // (2/12)
task 12 - watch a film that contains a team-winning or team-playing theme (sports, work, political, family, anything you can team up)
[pluto in scorpio: your generation's psyche is comparatively passionate, intense and perceptive.]
i'm struggling to think of words that i could say about parasite that haven't already been said. there was so much to grasp that i think multiple watches are inevitable for this film. but wow, bong joon-ho is really a master, isn't he?
there were a myriad of themes that struck me in this piece: grief, loss, greed, desperation, classism, hardship, familial obligation, condescension, distance, loneliness, emptiness, hunger (literal and figurative), just to name a few. but what sticks with me the most, at least on my first watch (yes, i really haven't seen this until now somehow), is the theme of humiliation. the loss of dignity, the stripping of one's self-esteem. most of what occurs in this film, especially in the third act, can be pulled from this underlying source. those who dish out shame are perishable, just like the ones they embarrass. no one is above anyone else. that's an important lesson that bong joon-ho is trying to convey here.
perhaps the smell of a basement *is* like an "old radish"; perhaps it's putrid, lingering, a foul stench upon the nostrils. but the far more lasting odor is the rotten aroma of pride. vanity can be a disease that eats you from the inside out. what do any one of us have left at the end of the day besides ourselves? who we are? or, maybe a more important question: who are we? parasite is asking you to choose what kind of person you want to be, and it's asking you to live by that, to live *up* to that. will you?
"proud people breed sad sorrows for themselves." - emily brontë
"i could easily forgive his pride, if he had not mortified mine." - jane austen
"pride must die in you, or nothing of heaven can live in you." - andrew murray
"pride costs us more than hunger, thirst, and cold." - thomas jefferson
"my pride had been starched by a family who assumed unlimited authority in its own affairs." - maya angelou
(bong joon-ho - ranked)
(top favorite first watches of 2020)
(part of my priority watchlist of 2020)
(2019 - ranked)
519. Yorum: I cannot believe this nonsense is winning all the awards. This movie is so evil, vile, and wrong on many levels. This is not a movie about gap between the rich and the poor, this is a movie about a perfectly normal family (the Parks) being violated by a family of thieves, frauds, and killers. Pretending it's a social commentary on class difference is just ignorant and morally bankrupt.
- check out other Films I absolutely hate for philosophical reasons
520. Yorum: 
521. Yorum: Wow.
Bong HIITS.
522. Yorum: 😱 👌 👍
523. Yorum: Damn, he really shouldn’t have given his friend that job recommendation.
La La Land level epilogue type situation.
That one shot was the scariest thing I’ve ever seen in my life
524. Yorum: incredible
525. Yorum: “If there’s one thing I hate, it’s people that cross the line.”- Mr. Park
Noticing on this rewatch this is talking about the physical lines that separate characters from different classes in many scenes. 
The fact that Bong and his production team designed a whole ass house with these angles and blocking in mind, and to make it look that good, will never cease to amaze me.
{#104 on Favorites list} {#1 on Best Movies of 2019 list}
526. Yorum: I might have found my new favorite Korean film! I mean wow, there's just so many layers to all this. I'm so glad I went into it blind. I didn't know what to expect. Granted, I knew Bong would do his usual genre blending, but the fact he did his usual critique of the class differences in South Korea while also making me bust a gut? That's some huge skill right there. Stellar acting overall, but I just have to give it to Park So-dam. Her character was probably the most frustrating yet compelling. Ki-jung proves to be very cunning throughout the story, setting up most of the plans to kick the other employees out. Yet, she's too lazy to even THINK of what her dream home would be like. While I should watch it again to really let it sink in, I don't think anything else from 2019 will top this for me.
527. Yorum: fiquei pensando se não tem ninguém morando escondido na casa da ana hickmann
528. Yorum: Sydney Film Festival 2019 - #10
I'm not sure that there is anyone working today that is creating such entertaining, beautiful and socially engaged films as Joon-Ho Bong. As far as English-language films go, maybe Jordan Peele could claim a similar stature if he continues to develop a strong body of work going forward. However, there will be nothing quite like a hit from the Bong. This dude makes massive movies that work on so many levels. The judges at Cannes done did good this year when they awarded it the palme d'dor.
Note: I am sure that there are other directors mining a similar vein just as well, but I am having a brain fart in my excitement at having just seen such a great film like Parasite.
529. Yorum: This is so metaphorical.
Sometimes it's okay to admit that you're wrong. Or, more accurately, once in a while, a second viewing can do miracles for a movie, if you're willing to give it the chance. I won't beat around the bush, the first time I watched Parasite, the first half or so bothered me. I didn't like the way the Kims were characterized, and the slower pace felt like it was there more to simply extend the length of the feature instead of any substance being behind it. This time around, not only did those criticisms disappear, I’d even say I did a full 180. Now that I had all of the pieces, seeing how it all came together and built towards the second half, it was a helluva ride that I liked a lot. There was a moment early on that stuck with me throughout the rest of the film. As the pesticide to get rid of the stink bugs is sprayed through the window into the Kims' house, Ki-taek keeps his head down, looking at the phone, and continues to fold pizza boxes. A father undeterred by any distractions to provide for his family, no matter what.
If you've heard or read anything about Parasite from a review, the word that you've likely come across the most is "metaphor." On a second viewing, I felt like I was able to take in so much more of that metaphor, and nearly all of it felt smooth. It was a part of the world that the film takes place in. You can see Parasite as an expertly crafted family drama, which it is, or you can see it as a portrayal of the injustices and cruelty faced under class divide and general ignorance by power, which it also is. The contrast between the homes of the Kims and the Parks, how they're decorated, the use of being above ground and underground, it's a feast for the eyes, and reinforces the thematic material of the feature even when the dialogue is focused on something else. That's the mark of good writing, and of a story that was born to be represented through the medium of film. The score also continued to be a highlight, its placement here and there adding to whatever scene or moment it was featured in.
Do I now believe that Parasite is a "best film of all-time" candidate? Not really. But do I now believe that it is, as nearly everyone is saying, a great movie? I would say yes it is. (I would also say it is very likely to go up even further in rating whenever I decide a third viewing is warranted.) Its Best Picture win feels wholly earned, and I cannot say enough how happy it makes me that Bong Joon Ho is now an Oscar winner. (Can you believe this was the first time a South Korean film has so much as been nominated for Best Foreign Film? Mental.) I hope more films overseas will find as much international success as this has. Good filmmaking is good filmmaking, regardless of its place of origin, or the language that is spoken. I don't want this comment to come back to bite me in the ass, but I think we may be beyond the days of Green Book. (No offense to fans of that movie.) The world is constantly evolving, and the oppressed are getting restless. It is the time for those who were once and still are under the boot to tell their own stories and pass their truths onto those that can offer real change. If we stay as we are, tolerant of injustice and suppression so long as it isn't happening to us, a sharp, violent wake-up call is not a matter of if, but of when. #bonghive
8.5/10
530. Yorum: I wonder how he was going to get that letter back to his dad
531. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho and Luca Guadagnino really know how to do fucked up things with peaches.
532. Yorum: “é por isso que as pessoas não devem fazer planos! sem plano, nada pode dar errado.”

como tiveram a audácia de nos entregar uma cena do Ki-woo levando 2 pedrada na cabeça, sobrevivendo e ainda rindo quando acorda no hospital, e ao mesmo tempo matando a Ki-jung com uma facada só.
Parasite é um daqueles filmes que você literalmente não sabe o que está por vir durante a história, e isso que da a essência forte dele! confesso que várias cenas eu fiquei extremamente tensa, deixando em principal a cena em que Kim Ki-taek está se arrastando para sair da sala e o garoto acorda na barraca chamando pelos pais bem quando Kim estava quase saindo, mas também confesso que, teve várias cenas vergonhosas, deixando em primeiro lugar a cena da sala novamente, que apesar de ser tensa, me fez ter que abaixar o volume do meu fone para ninguém ouvir aquela mulher gemendo; mas, tirando essa cena, o filme nos entrega um ótimo ritmo, uma ótima história, atuações impecáveis e acima de tudo: plots incríveis! Parasite nos mostra uma realidade onde pessoas fazem tudo por dinheiro, e se pararmos para pensar, isso ja 
acontece no mundo real e não apenas em filmes, vivemos em uma sociedade onde tudo pode acontecer, ainda mais se o dinheiro estiver envolvido.
dito isso, sejam gratos e lembrem o quão privilegiados somos apenas por ter um prato de comida na mesa todos os dias.
533. Yorum: 
534. Yorum: Listened to the commentary. Very funny hearing Bong watch his own movie and go “oh my god” and “jeez” and “wow that’s super extreme violence”, sounding genuinely disturbed by the movie he made lol
535. Yorum: bong better be walking up those stairs to claim all his awards this season!!!!!!
536. Yorum: Finally! This has been waiting in my watchlist since the day I downloaded Letterboxd, and it did not disappoint at all. Fantastic screenplay by Bong Joon-ho and I really hope it will be a 5 star at a later rewatch.
537. Yorum: so like, this films been out for a while now and i was just wondering when everyone was gonna pack up, go home and find another career bc no ones gonna be able to top this.
538. Yorum: 2019 Ranked
If I haven't mentioned it before, Bong Joon-ho is my favorite director. And this movie blew me away. Equal parts funny and thrilling, while also adding a family dynamic that is surprisingly endearing, Joon-ho crafts a film that successfully wanders through the turmoil of financial inequality.
The performances are all brilliant, but I HAVE to talk about my favorite actor, the legendary Song Kang-ho. His character has a innate coolness to him, shown off from his driving scenes to his immediate jump to action to help to family, and even at the very beginning as he begins to rapidly fold pizza boxes. I loved watching this family plot things together, because even as more sinister things began to happen, the treatment of each other remained the same.
Joon-ho successfully adds more mistakes to his characters that just nail in the facts that they are human, or they are compassionate. Much like the mistakes of the main character in The Host, all of the mistakes our main characters make in this film can be summed up to very understandable mistakes, and that helps to drive it up on the scale of films as well.
There were some brilliant shots as well, but I was so enthralled by the story that I didn't get to spend as much time taking in the shots and lighting as much as I would like to. So I am extremely looking forward to my rewatch to what is currently my top film of the year.
539. Yorum: Bong really just went and forgot to add any flaws to this movie…
540. Yorum: i was super tired when is started this so wasn’t sure if i was going to manage reading subtitles for two hours but WOW HOLY MOTHER. Parasite is visually so easy to watch and gripping. i’d heard the hype over this film but never knew what it involved and im so glad i went into it without knowing because i gasped so much.
541. Yorum: 2019 Ranked
It is pretty amazing that Bong Joon-ho was able to make a film where practically every scene or even prop can have some meaning that relates to Parasites or siphoning off of another. When I first saw the trailer and saw Song Kang-ho in a Native American Headdress I was a little taken aback. But the execution of the ideas, that these rich people will siphon off of everything, whether its poor people or disenfranchised cultures all the way across the world just to make their son happy, without properly taking the time to understand that culture is pretty brilliant. I noticed a lot more subtlety with that specific example this time around.
Another I paid more attention to is how beautiful the soundtrack is. Whether its the composed score or the few times they play licensed songs, it doesn't just compliment the scene, its fully ingrained in everything the scene is. The beauty of the films made by Bong Joon-ho is that if you take even a tiny piece out of one of the scenes, it might completely fall apart. It might still be a good scene for a regular film, but Bong Joon-ho films ascend to a higher plane, where every piece works perfectly in sync 100% of the time.
Just like all of his other films, the comedy to horror is able to flip back and forth effortlessly, having some truly intense and brutal scenes, filled with dread, but then jump to the next scene where it is full of jokes and laughs and Song Kang-ho's beautiful face. The performances definitely make the execution of this much easier. Song Kang-ho is probably my favorite performance, but Lee Jung-eun as Moon-gwang, Choi Woo-shik as Ki-woo, and Park So-dam as Ki-jung were all close behind as well. Everyone else was brilliant as well. This is one of the most beautiful and well acted films I have ever seen, and the absolute craziest part about that is I don't even think it is the best Bong Joon-ho film.
542. Yorum: The greatest movie ever made? It's certainly up there. Words can't express how good this film is. Every single second of this film is perfect, Bony Joon Ho executed every aspect flawlessly. It was bound to happen but Prisoners leaves my top ten favourites for the first time this year.
This film puts me through all sorts of emotions and makes my heart race like no other. The way the film blends so many themes and genres together is just genius. Not only is it a drama thriller but it also tackles such deep themes of class conflict and wealth inequality. The twists and turns are just crazy, and everytime I watch the ending, it gets me super shocked.
The performances from the whole cast are truly amazing, some of the greatest display of acting I've ever seen. The cinematography perfectly shows the rundown, gritty poverty juxtaposing it against the stunning and easy rich life. I honestly dont believe there is a single shot wasted throughout its entire runtime and it's got to be in the conversation with having the greatest cinematography ever.
Overall, Parasite in my opinion is one of the greatest movies ever made and easily gets a near perfect score from me. An absolute must watch and one that gets better on every watch, due to the immense detail put through the props and writing, aswell as the incredible use of foreshadowing.
99/100 🏕️
543. Yorum: The scholar's rock was floating on the sewage water. It's fake, and lighter than it looks!
544. Yorum: Not sure what I can aim to unpack that hasn’t already been done (but hi here’s my review), but just a note to urge you to seek out the black and white version if you can.
With no colour, there’s so much more space and texture to really get sucked in to the infinitely precise facial emotion of *every* skilled performer, the flickering - and differing - lights sparkle across each home in entirely singular ways, smooth kitchen tops and rugged stones seem three-dimensional in geometrical and almost poetic architecture, and the knockout narrative rises and falls in tension, humour, violence and sadness really cement themselves as historic achievements with stripped-back visuals.
When talking about releasing this black and white version in Rotterdam, Bong said that a lot of classic movies he loves, considered, well, classics, are in black and white. He joked that his goal with this is for people to consider his movie to also be a classic — and, I mean, I’ve been asked to do much more improbable things than that. We are so, so lucky to have him.
There! Exists! No! Better! Picture!!!
545. Yorum: I wish I had more time and energy to write about this, but life has been hectic lately so I have to keep it brief. The movie is amazing. Hilarious, gut wrenching, smartly written, and gorgeously shot. Also, Lee Sun-kyun has such an amazing voice haha. I haven't seen him since R-Point, which was like...ages ago. I should watch that again sometime, I remember liking it.
I am completely losing focus here; just don't miss this movie.
546. Yorum: 
547. Yorum: A really enjoyable movie until the doorbell rings with old maid trying to get in the house. From that point in it’s a nonstop anxiety attack that you can’t look away from! I do wish Ki-jung had lived though. That really puts a damper on the ending. Otherwise i think the movie is great!
Lists:
2019 Movies Ranked
548. Yorum: Just like in The Exorcist, Parasite is littered with themes and motifs of ascending and descending. Except this time the evil isn’t demonic, it’s economic.
549. Yorum: Watching a universally beloved work of art and connecting with it on every single level has got to be one of the best film related experiences ever created
550. Yorum: One of my favorite parts is when the basement-dwelling Geun-se and Mr. Park come face to face and Geun-se shouts "Hello Mr. Park RESPECT" and Mr. Park simply replies "you know me?" It just hits differently with the rise of the Elon Musk fanboy.
551. Yorum: On rewatch, I've come to appreciate this film even more. Admittedly, I'm not well-diverse into the whole satirical take of capitalism premise, but I can say that this is hands down the most riveting and sublime film I've seen in a very long while!!
552. Yorum: I think Parasite is so good that you almost forget how good it is. On every single level, it’s pretty much perfect, to the point where you don’t even think about it. Bong’s vision is so strong, and you can obviously tell that everything that is happening in front of you is happening for a reason. Also, everyone in it is fantastic, especially Cho Yeo-jeong and Song Kang-ho. I can’t imagine not absolutely loving this movie. I’m so happy it exists. I’ve seen it 3 times now and it’s just as funny, shocking, and tense as the first time. I can’t wait to see what Bong does next.
553. Yorum: So I've finally seen the film I've been looking forward to for about a year! The first hour is great; simple, effective, funny, tense and punctuated with great characters. But there's a twist at the midway point that is a surprise because it comes out of nowhere, and it completely disrupts the rhythm that the film was building and seems to undermine the central theme. The class struggle presented is interesting and there's a clear divide between the two central families but I'm not sure if anything here is done better than it was in The Handmaiden. There's certainly lots to like and I did enjoy it...but it really just left me cold to be honest, which I wasnt expecting after the first half! I wouldn't call Parasite the best film of last year or even a personal best for Bong (but I'm glad he got the prize because of his impressive filmography)
554. Yorum: Now THAT’S what I call an original screenplay. We need more movies like this in the US.
555. Yorum: capitalism STOPPPP. for real STOP.
also shout out to the person that had to get attended to by the ambulance during this. hope you're doing alright.
556. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho OWNS my ass
557. Yorum: Watched the black and white version. Parasite is one of the all time greats and is easily in my top five favourites ever. The acting performances, directing, storytelling, sound, writing, pacing, the themes it explores, the multiple genres that are seamlessly weaved together and THAT final act... Absolute Perfection.
558. Yorum: I think the last moment of sheer joy I felt was when this won Best Picture
559. Yorum: 
560. Yorum: I am probably the last person on here to watch this movie, but I'm glad I finally got around to it. There's really nothing to say about this other than to affirm that it is indeed the masterpiece everyone says it is. Bong Joon-ho is one of the best at visual storytelling, blending genres and crafting insanely layered and shocking stories. The technical aspects of the film are unsurprisingly all perfect. The impressive symbolism and foreshadowing cement the film as a classic with endless rewatchability for years to come. I'm glad this got the recognition it deserved.
561. Yorum: Something truely shifted when this movie dropped, everybody moved, instant classic.
562. Yorum: A power ballad for the ages. Sweeping crescendo and all. That ultimate symphony between biting commentary and edge of your seat entertainment. And who better as your conductor than the maestro of scintillating social statements, Bong Joon-Ho himself. God, what an absolute banger. 
What really stands out to me this time is a real sense of hopelessness. Even setting to one side the despair that rings through the now infamous closing moments and those wider communal implications (not to mention- how harder it hits following how damn funny it is throughout- it never fails to catch me off guard how this swings from sharply comical to downright gloomy at the switch of a light)- Ignoring all that, I feel an unhinged detachment from our future as a collective humanity. Both sets of families I can’t help as see as anything but straight-up despicable. And yet, they (the Kims, Parks, each of us by extension) are all just doing what they must in order to survive the hands that they have been given. Right? I’m not totally sure, but it’s a *fun* one to be forced to mull over either way. God, what an absolute banger.
I do think it’s a shame we haven’t been able to see the immediate after-effect this would go on to have on the industry Re: every other release under the sun being shelved or pushed back. But I don’t think it too overzealous to claim that time will be very kind, and very very telling to Parasite. A moment for the history books, no doubt. God, what an absolute banger. 
563. Yorum: OH. MY. FUCKING. GOD.
564. Yorum: Parasite
"No one can imitate North Korean anchors like you"
Ok I'm a little late in watching this film, and by now I was expecting an absolute masterpiece, but this is even fucking better.
The story of this lower class family in South Korea, who slowly manages to squeeze in among the richest, in a very strange way...
Wonderfully directed by Bong Joon-ho (as always), phenomenal acting from everyone, particularly Song Kang-ho, who I also loved madly in Memories Of Murder.
An intricate and twisted story, which ends in a totally unexpected way. Definitely a 5 star film.
Ki-taek: [to his son] You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. Got it?
565. Yorum: Lets see .
Story captivating ,interesting ,social , meaningful , deep and relevant .
Characters releatable , likeable , funny ,
felt like real persons , easy to understand points of both sides .
Direction strong and sure in itself .
Script filled with captivating lines that will glue your eyes to screen .
Visual look amazing with some scenes looking like art .
Tone shifts done in great way and serious and comedic moments mix up perfectly .
Ending strong as rest , not to happy and not to sad .
And that is all ,Parasite is masterpiece
Over and out .

🔜 Fist Of Fury
566. Yorum: I feel so bad for not watching this sooner rather then later. This was so good! Forgive me Bong Joon Ho.
9/10
Quarantine 2021 List
567. Yorum: Wow... WOW....
I really didn’t expect it to live up to the monumentally high praise that this film has received.... But my god, it somehow managed to surpass them.
Parasite is quite frankly flawless in my opinion, I can’t think of a single thing wrong with it. It’s dark, funny, scary... This movie as a concept is something that really should not have worked, the second half of this movie so easily could have gone completely off the rails, but it didn’t. And it is REALLY impressive. Parasite has masterful editing, a beautiful score, fantastic acting and direction... it’s just... Perfect.... I’ll talk more about this soon

Score: A+
568. Yorum: I spent 95% of this movie worrying something bad would happen to the dogs. Otherwise, great!
569. Yorum: A stratified society that is strongly separated by a breach that grows and is almost impossible to cross, poverty, inequality and ambition, an uncertain future, and the attempt to disrupt the social order are some of the elements combined for the beholder to witness the class struggle in all its voracity. Bong Joon-ho's latest work is a scathing critique of contemporary Korean society which, in many respects, is not far removed nor very different from the reality we experience elsewhere. Gisaengchung is a truly hypnotic work that is constantly transforming itself, mutating, captivating and mystifying with its intense pace, shifting from the darkest comedy to the most brutal drama in a masterly manner while imbuing uneasiness and tension. Satire and social commentary with immense power and great eloquence. Irreverent, visceral, and ingenious; Gisaengchung is quite simply brilliant.
570. Yorum: How am I supposed to go on with my life now wtf lmao
571. Yorum: Good to see you.
It was about time to travel to South Korea and revisit this banger of a dark comedy.
Kitaek's family has it tough, literally living at the bottom of society. When they sniff an opportunity at a better life they infiltrate a rich family but soon the viewer is confronted with the question who the real parasites are.
This film is simply fantastic. The writing is smart and so funny.
Great performances, a nice score and the sets are stunning, showcasing the class differences very effectively - the toilet and of course the use of the staircases.
Great stuff.
So, if you've been looking for an excuse to rewatch Parasite, today is it's 4th anniversary! 🥳
572. Yorum: 
573. Yorum: primeiro filme do mundo, joon-ho pai do cinema
574. Yorum: 𝑷𝒂𝒓𝒂𝒔𝒊𝒕𝒆: 𝑨𝒏 𝒐𝒓𝒈𝒂𝒏𝒊𝒔𝒎 𝒕𝒉𝒂𝒕 𝒍𝒊𝒗𝒆𝒔 𝒐𝒏 𝒐𝒓 𝒊𝒏 𝒂 𝒉𝒐𝒔𝒕 𝒐𝒓𝒈𝒂𝒏𝒊𝒔𝒎 𝒂𝒏𝒅 𝒈𝒆𝒕𝒔 𝒊𝒕𝒔 𝒇𝒐𝒐𝒅 𝒇𝒓𝒐𝒎 𝒐𝒓 𝒂𝒕 𝒕𝒉𝒆 𝒆𝒙𝒑𝒆𝒏𝒔𝒆 𝒐𝒇 𝒊𝒕𝒔 𝒉𝒐𝒔𝒕.
Parasite is a 2019 South Korean black comedy thriller film directed by Bong Joon-ho, who co-wrote the screenplay with Han Jin-won. The film, starring Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik, Park So-dam, Jang Hye-jin, and Lee Jung-eun, follows a poor family who scheme to become employed by a wealthy family and infiltrate their household by posing as unrelated, highly qualified individuals.
To begin with I want to give more of a heads up than anything else for my followers who can empathize when I say: foreign films can be conceptually intimidating.
I've never been very good at giving a movie in my full intention (This applies to even the ones that I like. I know. Shame on me.).
That said: Joon-ho’s Adoration for he Coen Brothers is in full effect here with ‘Parasite’ being filled with exceptionally heavy dialogue. What's important to note, however, is that this isn't to a detriment, and is instead 𝒓𝒆𝒒𝒖𝒊𝒓𝒆𝒅 to escort viewers through a maze of tonal shifts and significant points of Discord or chaos.
If I might indulge I would say that it is difficult to neglect commenting on the pacing and which ‘Parasite’s exposition is developed. Conflicts and their subsequent solutions emerge inconsistently and at times makes the narration seem mildly distracted by the bigger purpose it obviously has in mind. A large amount of deception must be fulfilled in order to force ‘Parasite’s hand, and as a consequence of this it becomes naturally filled with plot holes that are not easily filled or ignored outright. This is only excavated by the extent in which some overwhelming convenience and detached coincidences are used to carry much of ‘Parasite’ through its first half. Regardless, expertly crafted tension makes this one point that is easily forgiven and temporarily stifles this complaint.
What might come as a surprise to viewers is that Joon-ho originally conceptualized ‘Parasite’ as a play; with a clear understanding of the advantage specific vantage points can play in addition to the intricate set design the chance to make this a feature film is seamlessly unparalleled. Voyurist motifs are integrated as a way of instigating a “predator versus prey” dynamic between the Kim and park family with certain features (like stairs) literally elevating the sharp contrast between the complacently wealthy and the begrudgingly impoverished. Equal parts forthcoming and mysterious: Hong Kyung-pyo executes Joon-ho’s vision with the use of visual disparities that are endlessly stunning.
(Fun fact: The set design of the affluent Park family house was made completely from scratch in addition to the view of the environment just immediately outside of the Kim’s family home).
I have yet to know if any film has claimed an official monopoly on plot twists - but if so ‘Parasite’ is a more than worthy contender. From the first moment of climatic surprise Joon-ho and Jin-won put their foot on the accelerator with no intention of laying off of the metaphorical gas that keeps viewers guessing. This isn't just to say that some conclusions are completely unexpected - because in hindsight some seem unavoidable in the grander context - but the delivery throughout remains hauntingly engaging. Over time its viewers become a piñata with ‘Parasite’ acting as a fustigating stick: with each of its devastating blows any sense of optimism (and quite literally some jaws) are forced into a state of submission that mimics the ground underneath them.
Ushered along by a class act of ‘Chameleon-aires’: ‘Parasite’ transcends above what would otherwise be mundane and monotonous commentary as it relates to fiscal and social stratification. Taking away ( but not completely removing) avenues of sympathy while remaining ambiguously hopeful - the gaps between what someone is, what someone aspires to be, and what someone is capable of a coming are violently exploited, meticulously explored, and proficiently examined.
An archaic reminder transformed by an excess of cruel originality: ‘Parasite’ stresses the importance of being careful what you wish for... because in the end you just might get it (and more).
I would recommend.
Side note: In watching this my 'favorite first watch of 2021' has been officially dethroned.
575. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.” - Ki-Taek
Parasite is fantastic.
It's clever. It's funny. It's disturbing. And yes, there is a powerful underlying theme of the divide between rich and poor. But the latter is so deftly weaved into the fabric of the story, you really don't think about it much until a fateful scene before the last act.
It fully deserved the Oscar for Best Picture and Director. If only for the peach fuzz fight scene.
576. Yorum: still a masterpiece. still one of the best films of all time.
577. Yorum: after geun-sae escapes the bunker....AND steals a knife......AND stabs ki-jeong in the heart........AND traumatizes countless people at this party.......a 70 year-old man sitting behind me leaned over to his wife.......and with no way of knowing how to react........just blurts out......................“wow, he’s really going bananas”
578. Yorum: Bitches will say this a masterpiece...
It’s me, I’m bitches.

-2019 Ranked 🍿
579. Yorum: So.... any of you heard of Parasite? It's a pretty good movie. Wouldn't want it to get lost in all the new movie excitement and have no one notice.
Really though, Parasite is quite good. It's my first Bong Joon-ho film (I know, I know), so it's worth keeping in mind that I lack the context of his other works, should that make any difference. But writing about something that has now become the 2nd ranked film on this entire website is honestly kind of annoying -- let's just say that 4 stars is a quite good rating, and I have few complaints about the movie, it just didn't connect and grab me well enough to really get the highest ratings. Such is life, just if you're looking for me to "justify" rating this lower than 76% of this website has, you're going to be disappointed. I won't deny feeling a degree of "Oh... that was it?" when considering the ridiculous hype people have surrounded this film in, but that came from me feeling a constant "Hey this is good" but virtually never feeling "Wow this is spectacular" or however you want to phrase it.
In a technical sense, the hype is easy to understand. Joon-ho (along with cinematographer Hong Kyung-pyo) is able to squeeze beauty out of every shot. Whether in the architectural wonder-house of the rich family or the dingy basement of the poor one, virtually every shot is interesting to look at. The actors are great as well across the board. Through writing and interactions the Kim (poor) family is endearing, feeling like a real family with bonds to each other. The Parks (rich) are just as good but in a slightly more cold, distant way -- there's the sense that they do care about each other, but their possessions, servants, and busy lives have almost served to detach them from each other. Money has made life far easier, but it has also eroded some human connections.
Though the rich are never quite attacked by the film as harshly as I expected. The wealth and luxuries that the Parks have shield them from ever thinking about those who are less fortunate. As presented here, they aren't callous or greedy; they are just entirely ignorant. For Parasite, the rich just were fortunate, probably from birth, to be shielded from the harsh reality that the poor live. They make games out of the events (for example, heavy rainfall) that might ruin other people's lives. They just don't know. There's no doubt a degree of truth to that, but I'm not entirely sure how to feel about it; I think I may have preferred if the film gave us the opportunity to see how they react when faced with people who have been screwed over by the system.
I do enjoy the way that throughout the film, the poor are shown to idolize the rich, though. The Kims think the Parks are nice because they have money. There are some spoiler-y parallels later in the film to people who are suffering and just barely able to get by in some capacity who want to thank the wealthy for indirectly allowing them to... not quite die. It's hopefully changing, but "wealthy people are good" is certainly a fallacy that exists. The infighting and scrambling for crumbs among the poor is an important theme to see displayed here, too.
If I really had to dig in for a complaint, I think I'm just not quite feeling the ending of this film. It might be better off without that epilogue at all. Either way, to some degree I did enjoy the amusing setup of the first half more than the tense payoff of the second. The later parts of the movie almost felt too much like what people expect from popular Korean films, if that makes sense. Not to say it's a good idea to paint a country's film output with such a wide brush, but I think there are certain storytelling trends that international audiences associate with the country and Parasite indulged in the way that those would lead me to expect.
Still, Parasite is a cool movie. Focus on those words and not the other ones. I hate feeling like a grumpy contrarian when giving something this high of a rating.
580. Yorum: Masterpiece.
Obviously.
► My review on YouTube
581. Yorum: holy shit???? the first good movie??
582. Yorum: Easily one of the best films of 2019!
Blends dark humor and social commentary flawlessly. How the story leads to unexpected consequences is so riveting.
Brilliant direction by Bong Joon-ho and exceptional performances by the cast elevate the storyline even further. The set designs are so well-thought-out that they perfectly capture the class divide.
Clever exploration of societal inequality and human nature prompts this film as a must watch piece of art. Is it enthralling? Yes! Is it thought-provoking? Yes! Did the suspenseful plot twist made this film more prestigious? Yes!
My first ever Bong Joon-ho film and it didn't disappoint!
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
583. Yorum: The only negative thing about the 4th viewing was that somebody brought a crying baby into the theater. Anyway, check out my earlier write-up on this masterpiece: link.medium.com/QdG86fMem1
584. Yorum: i should’ve kept track of how many times i said wtf during this movie
585. Yorum: 
586. Yorum: Do it clockwise. ⏰
587. Yorum: Joining rarified air alongside La Grande Illusion (1937), Z (1969), The Emigrants (1971), Cries and Whispers (1972), Life is Beautiful (1997), Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (2000), Letters from Iwo Jima (2006), Babel (2006), Amour (2012), and Roma (2018), Bong Joon-ho’s dark comedy thriller Parasite 기생충 (2019) is only the twelfth foreign language film to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture (formerly the Academy Award for Outstanding Production).
Parasite (2019) is a difficult film for me to review because I found myself emotionally agitated by the viewing, a feeling that returns any time I think back on its content. This seems to be, at least in part, due to a dark, playful voyeurism, very reminiscent of Hitchcock, used as a bridge from the realistic to the absurd. 
The story, design, cinematography, and sound of this film intertwine in a subtle harmony that is difficult to articulate, especially without spoilers. What you should take away from this review is that Bong Joon-ho pulls off something that most art films cannot, and that is exceptionally well-made and entertaining film that does not have hide its weaknesses behind gimmicks. 
There are lot of opinions out there about who got “snubbed” this award season so I know this isn’t a commonly held opinion, but I think the Academy’s greatest miss this year is a failure to recognize the absolutely phenomenal performances by the cast of Parasite. I understand that there are no clear standouts within the acting group of Song Kang-ho, Jang Hye-jin, Choi Woo-shik, and Park So-dam or Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Jung Ji-so, and Jung Hyun-jun, but that isn’t an accident. It is the result of excellent characters, skillful acting, and onscreen chemistry. 
Born of cunning design and meticulous care, Bong Joon-ho’s final product, Parasite (2019), effortlessly passes between its sharply contrasting components in an almost indescribable manner that you need to see to believe.
588. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho reigns!!!!!!!!!!!!! Parasite is AMAZING! Love love love this film. A complete and total knockout. A brilliant dark comedy and fantastic take down of rich people. One of Bong Joon-ho's best films, and I LOVE his films, so that's really saying something. A masterclass in filmmaking, with perfect composition, every performance dialed in, and a genius screenplay with so much depth and intelligence and humor. IT RULES. So fucking much. Ahhhh!! I can't wait to see this again.
589. Yorum: this is one of those movies that won’t ever get boring but you kinda wish you could forget so you can watch for the first time again.
590. Yorum: Second viewing.
Still a masterpiece. 
Obviously.
► My original review on YouTube
591. Yorum: Es ist angerichtet!
Ein filmisches Festmahl erwartet dich - mit allen Köstlichkeiten, die du dir nur wünschen kannst. Leichtfüßig serviert werden Komödie, Thriller, Drama, Gesellschaftssatire ... und vor Entzücken schlägt dein Herz schneller.
Lass dich überraschen. Leg die Speisekarte zur Seite. Verdirb dir nicht den Appetit mit Vorgekautem.
Setz dich an die Tafel und genieße.
Und wenn du die Serviette entfaltest, entdeckst du einen kleinen Zettel, auf dem steht:
FOR THE LOVE OF CINEMA!
592. Yorum: pobreza miserável
593. Yorum: Curiosidade: Bong Jo-Hoon teve a inspiração de fazer esse filme depois que viu a letra do hit Xibom Bombom
594. Yorum: All you’ll have to do is come up the stairs.
What is a metaphor? My personal definition is that a metaphor is something simple and concrete that conveys something much more complicated and abstract. In film, metaphors are particularly strong, because they can be visually dynamic as well as narratively. Bong Joon-Ho is perhaps the human being with the deepest understanding of a metaphor. He knows how to make one ebb and flow, how to make you comfortable with a metaphor without consciously knowing it is one, how to mix and match different metaphors to create distinct motifs to create brilliant themes, and most of all, how to imbue a film with so much metaphorical substance that it becomes a metaphor itself. The film I’m talking about is, of course, Parasite. And while the film is easily one of the best I’ve ever seen in a wide variety of ways, today I’d like to break down the first ten minutes of Parasite - with a specific focus on Bong Joon-Ho’s metaphorical prowess. Because indeed, nobody has ever mastered the art of cinematic metaphor quite like him.
The film opens with the title “Parasite” superimposed upon the basement of the Kims’ semi-basement window and the opening piece of score playing - the screenplay describes it as “dark, but curiously upbeat.” This bit of score is perhaps the most interesting one in the film, as you can hear it going up and down - but not directly, more so in symphonic formation akin to climbing stairs. As we’ll find out later, climbing up and down stairs is extremely important. The window in the semi-basement is grimey, and doesn’t let in very much light. Light, too, is very important to this film. The day outside is a bright summer day, but it doesn’t feel like it because we only get a little bit filtered into Kims’ home. Half of their home is aboveground, half underground. In less than 15 seconds, the two most important metaphors in the film have been established. The metaphor of stairs, which represent going up and down in social status; and the metaphor of light, which represents the amount of opportunity and affluence that lies ahead. So we can interpret that the Kims have some opportunity to gain wealth, but it is partially obscured by their place in society - both figuratively and literally, since they live half-underground.
The camera pans down to Ki-Woo, the Kims’ son. Their neighbor’s WiFi has had a password put on it, so they no longer have any. Immediately, in the first line of dialogue, we are introduced to our first set of parasites: the Kims - at the moment, just for something as simple as WiFi. We also quickly learn what this could mean: the Kims could lose access to job opportunities. They will descend even further if they don’t get this WiFi. We are introduced to the rest of the family - Ki-Jung (the Kim’s daughter), Chung-Sook (the matriarch), and Ki-Tek (the patriarch). We also learn of a key aspect of Ki-Tek’s personality - he always has a plan. For the moment, it is to advise his son “for WiFi, hold it high.” He follows this advice, and eventually connects to a network in the highest part of the semi-basement: the Kims’ toilet. More metaphors here, all having to do with the theme of ascension and stairs. He has to climb the stairs to get to his toilet, where he finds a signal. In other words, the Kims’ are leeching off those higher than them - once again, both literally and figuratively. And of course, the fact that the highest part of the Kims’ apartment is a toilet which you need stairs to get to is a metaphor, too. This is only confirmed when Ki-Jung can’t get a signal standing below the toilet, she has to climb up to get it.
The film then cuts to the family folding boxes for a pizza chain, working together to earn a meager wage by folding as many boxes as they can, as fast as possible. They watch from a video tutorial, given to them by Ki-Woo. Ki-Woo is consistently the person in the family who leads the rest to prosperity. This is the first sign of it: he is the one who provides the tutorial, allowing them to work faster. Meanwhile, Ki-Tek is the man with the plan. A fumigation truck passes by, and Ki-Jung suggests they close the window. But Ki-Tek says to leave it open, as it will kill all the insects that plague their home. It will kill all the parasites. As the fumes make the rest of the family cough and complain, Ki-Tek continues to fold boxes, looking at the video obscured by the fumes. While this tells us something about Ki-Tek’s character - he loves to plan and will work hard to achieve that plan - it is also a bit of foreshadowing. The fumigation, designed to kill the parasites, harms three of the Kims. The same three Kims that are no longer parasites by the end of the film, because they have either died or failed. But Ki-Tek, who remains a parasite in the Parks’ home to the very end of the film, is not harmed by this fumigation. In the next scene, the pizza worker is scolding them because they haven’t folded the boxes correctly. More specifically, Ki-Tek didn’t, when he was doing it during the fumigation. She talks very disrespectfully to Chung-Sook, even though she’s much younger than her. We see more of Ki-Woo’s personality as he dismantles the situation, laughing it off and proposing that a Kim could take the job of an AWOL part-time worker. Another instance of them being parasites. But they aren’t the only ones - the pizza workers are obviously parasites, too.
The Kims sit down to dinner, Ki-Tek jokingly saying that they must celebrate the bounteous WiFi (which they parasitically got from a place “higher” than them). Ki-Woo’s wealthy friend Min rides down the street, yelling at a man peeing in the street, and walks down into the Kims’ home. He arrives uninvited and walks in without knocking. Later in the film, the Kims will have to walk up a series of stairs and open a series of doors just to get into the Parks’ home. Bong is showing us how rich people impose themselves upon poorer people, while poor people have to go through a series of steps just to meet them. Also, notice how Min’s journey to the Kims is entirely downward. He gifts them with the scholar’s rock, which is promised to bring material wealth to families. Ki-Woo notes that the rock is “very metaphorical.” Indeed, it is. He and Min go have a drink on the corner. Min’s scooter is again parked on a hill sloping up, as if it came from a place far “higher” than this. Min comments that the Kims look healthy, and Ki-Woo replies that they are healthy, but broke. It is then that Min pulls out his phone, and proposes that Ki-Woo tutor a rich college girl that he has been tutoring, and wants to date. He says he doesn’t want any of his college friends “slobbering all over her.” This proposition taking place right after Ki-Woo states they are broke is not an accident. Min could have done so because he felt bad for Ki-Woo, but that’s only part of it. It is heavily implied that he looks down on his friend, and only trusts him with Min because he doesn’t think somebody so poor could be any competition. However, this trust is misguided, especially since it is Min’s idea for Ki-Woo to pose as a college student. At first, Ki-Woo is hesitant, but then a bus passes, and you can see the change in his face. This is when his character begins to have a clear goal: climb the social ladder and integrate himself into the Parks’ home. The scholar’s rock is the embodiment of this desire. Throughout the film, Ki-Woo is trying to imitate Min. And while Min disappears after this scene, the rock is the remnant of his character. Just like Min, Ki-Woo is destined for something greater - or so he believes.
And with that, we are a mere ten minutes into the film. But in spite of this, we know everything there is to know, thanks to some of the most efficient exposition I’ve ever seen in a film. Using metaphors, dialogue, and visual cues, Bong Joon-Ho has expertly shown us the Kim family. He has shown us their lack of wealth, how each of them have a key personality trait, how they reach upward and see light, but ultimately still live in a semi-basement and experience the sun through a dirty slit of a window. He has shown how they live parasitically, feeding off of people like the AWOL pizza worker and the coffee shop from whom they use WiFi. He has shown us Min, and how Ki-Woo strives to be like him, and how this desire is reflected via the scholar’s rock. Key metaphors have been introduced - besides the rock, we have the motif of light and the motif of stairs. The stinkbug that Ki-Tek flicks is even a bit of foreshadowing for the symbolic smell that will govern the climax. In ten minutes, we know exactly what film we are going to get - one with outstanding metaphors, complex characters, and fantastic direction and writing. And the rest of Parasite is all this and more. There’s some phenomenal montages, a groundbreaking twist in the vein of Psycho, and the cinematography and production design and editing consistently team up to make your jaw drop. Seriously, how many people actually noticed that the Kims and the Parks always have a line in the background to separate them, and they almost never cross it, a visual example of how the Park father even says that he loves how Ki-Tek never crosses the line? And when Ki-Woo is having a final moment of self-reflection, he looks out the window and there is a line between his reflection that is obscured by light (another motif) and his actual face. It’s because of moments like these that Parasite is probably the best film I’ve ever seen - though 12 Angry Men remains my favorite. Well, not entirely because of this. What really wins me over is that Parasite has fundamentally changed how I think about class structure.
There is more than one parasite in Parasite. The Kims are parasites, obviously. The bugs they squash in their home are parasites. The pizza worker is a parasite, docking the pay they desperately need even though she also utilizes the work they’ve done for her. The Parks are parasites. They utilize the labor that is provided to them, often without even recognizing that it is being provided. A clear example of this is Oh Geun-sae and how he turns on the lights for Mr. Park, but Mr. Park assumes they are automated. And they are incredibly ignorant, too. Mrs. Park tells her friend how the storm was a blessing, since it cleared out the sky for their son’s birthday party. The night before, tens of thousands of people lost their homes because of the very same storm. But they got to enjoy it on their lawn, protected from the elements by their twenty-million-dollar home. But really, none of these people are truly parasites. They are simply forced to be. The aforementioned storm is a great way to visualize what I mean. The Parks aren’t impacted by the rain because they exist at the top, and the water flows downward. We see the Kims running back to protect their home, and they run almost entirely downhill. The water gets deeper and deeper as they approach their home, and it is 100% flooded when they reach it. They escape with only a few of their belongings, while the Parks’ son camps out on the lawn in his American-made tent, enjoying the rain. Everyone has to be a parasite, because that is how the city is built. At the end of the film, Ki-Woo tells his father, who is trapped in the Park’s basement, that he will earn enough money to buy the house. Then, he says, all he’ll have to do is come up the stairs.
But as we cut back to Ki-Woo in his semi-basement home, we realize he’ll never save enough money to buy the house. It is simply too far away. He has to ascend too far to reach this goal, it is impossible. It would take 564 years for him to do so, according to Bong Joon-Ho. Ki-Tek will never be able to climb up the stairs. He is trapped in the basement. He is trapped by the system. So he will live out the rest of his days as a parasite, in order to survive. And so will everyone else. If there’s one thing Parasite taught me, it’s this.
The system is the real parasite.
#2 - My Favorite Films
#1 - 2019
595. Yorum: • — — • / • — / • — • / • — / • • • / • • / — / •
• • / • • •
• • • / • • — / — • — • / • • • •
• —
— • • • / • — • / • • / • — • • / • — • • / • • / • — / — • / —
— — / — — — / • • • — / • • / •
• — / — • / — • •
— / • — • / • • — / • — • • / — • — —
• —
— — / • — / • • • / — / • / • — • / • — — • / • • / • / — • — • / •
596. Yorum: Parasite, i'm in love with you. 
597. Yorum: "Rich people are naive. No resentments. No creases on them."
"It all gets ironed out. Money is an iron. Those creases all get smoothed out by money."
One Palme d'Or, four Oscars, the #1 spot in Letterboxd's Top 250... Parasite has surfed a wave of unimaginable hype over the last year. So naturally my interest was peaked. I prepared by watching Memories of Murder, The Host, and Mother, and loved them all. I went to the theatre, bought a ticket, and took my seat in a packed screening.
So is it better than The Godfather, as LB would have you believe? I don't know about that, but this film is absolutely spectacular in every single way.
I'd argue that Parasite is Bong Joon-ho's best movie to date. His most meticulously crafted, most intellectually stimulating, most emotionally compelling. The culmination of a career. Yet when judged as a standalone effort, it's still a profoundly exhilarating cinematic experience. Bong's directorial technique is impeccable, his writing incredibly perceptive. As if that's not enough, you also get glossy production design, a memorable musical score, super slick editing, and an ensemble of perfect performances. I have no criticisms whatsoever, even upon a first viewing.
Ultimately, what we have here is a crucial reminder of the power movies can hold over us. Most awards contenders are forgotten in a year, consigned to the footnotes of history. Not Parasite. I predict cinephiles are gonna be talking about this one for decades to come. As well they should.
598. Yorum: 
599. Yorum: Where were you when Parasite swept?
600. Yorum: BONGHIVE NATION, WE FUCKING WON TONIGHT. 4 FUCKING OSCARS. WE REALLY DID THAT!!!!!!! WE ARE APART OF HISTORY!
601. Yorum: this might get slightly overhyped.
honestly, the optics, lighting, music etc are confusingly bright and weird, seemingly not fitting to the intention of the film. but it's probably just me and my misunderstanding of asian film culture. or my upholding of audiovisual perfection, that I don't see fulfilled here. lot of characters were lacking of proper development, and it just seemed like there was more to get out of the whole scenario.
US also strikes me to be the better film in this unfortunate (but as subtle dynamic interestingly similar) pairing of the suppression of the lower classes in a narrative image.
ps: we got handed a directors note before the press screening, asking the critics to not spoil anything in their reviews for the sake of this artwork. considering that every filmmaker could have the right to ask this from his audience, this seemed pretty arrogant, conceited and pretentious.
602. Yorum: “Stop fighting over Ramen!”
Always forget how hilarious this movie is, so good, I love it almost as much as this YouTube clip about it: youtu.be/HxXJn9E6DWQ
603. Yorum: Pride shattered by glass
Illusions that give power 
Unequal treatment 
The way the shot compositions frame and position the characters throughout the movie is a harsh reminder that the status quo will eventually reset. The way character find humanity through struggle when dealing with manifestations of the barriers within classism is heartbreaking to see. Especially when those who are safe and secure lack humanity or have to put on a face to display humanity to others. A distinct contrast to those who have to pretend to lack humanity just to blend in and attempt to succeed. Self deception projected as a false means to achieve success. A myth so ingrained that it functions to eventually reveal the flaws of those who try to play the system to their advantage. In turn, ascribing more power to the top. Making it harder to truly crack the glass ceiling.
604. Yorum: It amazes me when after all this time films can still feel this original
605. Yorum: forever questioned my love for the rain
606. Yorum: Ghastly contortions of morality bludgeon any manicured perceptions of action one may have leave the audience most certainly dumbfounded to the callous intelligence of the labyrinthine fracturing facades that Parasite unyieldingly suffocates one with in a macabre symphony of riveting accounts and proportions. Emphatically inconspicuous is it’s thesis on the inexorable triad of class, psyche and morality, one in its seethingly fierce discretion injects a near cerebral nature to Parasite’s already deafening opera of erratically swirling ethos. 
The aforementioned triad of complexities each inform the others perception, be it a society informing class or the latter moulding a psyche only to have one’s morality dismembered by the unfeeling weight of the other two. Parasite’s blemished tapestry entwines into itself a discordant avenue for every minutia of its setup that all crescendos in drama of the most supreme demeanour. 
Parasite paints on a canvas starkly vacant. It comes with no presumed perceptions, empty in its intent to have favour towards some, concocting the most deviously hostile of machinations to distort each convoluted virtue. It’s action is just that, a stained portrait for the observer to discern; devoid of external virtue as it own takes twisted form. Visceral virtue thrives within the the quietly unembellished confines of Parasite’s blurred nature of narrative control. 
‘Where does this go from here?’ - is the question I found myself continually pondering over just when another staggering deviation that thunderously jolts the narrative maintaining it’s ever suffocating chokehold on the audience’s mind. I was fortunate enough to go into this surprisingly unspoiled and with each moment of brilliance my eyes opened wider as I sat awestruck at the sight of Parasite’s hypnotically breathtaking montage - esque strings of bewildering progressions. 
I’m not one to often make it a point to remark on the specifications and intricacies of a film’s direction since, in all honesty I’m familiar with the technical works for filmmaking but a peculiarly particular fact of note was Parasite’s construction and dissection of the geography of a location and scene. Informing the audience’s thrill and framing a narrative around itself the geometry of the Park house is as much a contributor to the startling brutality of the narrative as the glacially spiralling psyche of our characters. 
Now granted I will admit I’m perhaps being quite overbearing with my appreciation for Parasite but (and I’m ludicrously late in saying this) but it indeed does feel like an achievement in the perception and reception of non-English cinema and staunchly earns it’s place as the most popular film on this app. 
I’ll most definitely be more critical the second time ‘round but this was STUNNING. 
9.7/10
How and why it took me this long to watch this I have no clue and it’s the single film my extremely non-film-interested friends have recommended. 
607. Yorum: April fools :)
608. Yorum: have y’all heard of this Parasite movie? it’s pretty good
609. Yorum: park so dam if you see this i am free on thursday. if you want to hang out with me on thursday when i am free please respond and come over when i am free on thursday so we can hang out on thursday when i am free.
610. Yorum: i think we can all agree that parasite
611. Yorum: 
612. Yorum: this is so metaphorical!!!
613. Yorum: Loved it!
CLICK HERE to see me talk about it live on a recent episode of The Couch TV (48:55) 🦟
614. Yorum: Maravilhoso! Assisti pela terceira vez e ainda continuo me impressionando com muita coisa. O filme consegue divertir, emocionar, deixar apreensivo, surpreender e faz uma reflexão incrível sobre as camadas sociais. Mereceu toda a admiração e todos os prêmios que conquistou.
615. Yorum: That Ho can really direct
616. Yorum: For the longest while I've had Mother as my #1 Bong Joon-ho film. Even having seen Parasite I still, for whatever reason, gave the older movie the (slightest) edge. But with Parasite's recent wide-release I've been thinking about it more and decided I preferred it.
There's so many ideas packed into this film, so much so that on my first watch I didn't pick up on them all. And every theme feels interwoven with each other theme, to the point where it's difficult to isolate one without bringing in another. I really honed in on the nuances of class on that watch, and here what really stood out to me were how important connections were.
"They are rich but still nice."
Almost every advancement here is made off the back of connections, and and one point a character outright exclaims that a personal recommendation mattered far more than their documents. We see this happen again and again and at some point we realize these are based off of lies – and not just these specific ones (although it is true), but social networking in general. And it is interesting how this ties in with class as social standing becomes the most important currency, yet without actual money one can never truly be elite.
In that way Parasite became a much more depressing film this time: you have to fake and you have to lie in order to find meaningful advancement in the strata; that's simply one way to obtain social currency. But even if successful this is ultimately fruitless, as you ultimately can't lie when it comes to monetary currency. The elite are elite because they happen to have both, but unlike those beneath they were born with them already.
"They are nice because they are rich."
[Joint-review with Hay on All That Film here
▹ spoiler discussion here]
617. Yorum: forgot how absolutely batshit insane the second hour of this film is. easily the most deserving best picture winner of the last ten years
618. Yorum: "Parasite" by Bong Joon-ho is a film that, even upon a second viewing, manages to deeply impress and astonish. The complexity of the plot and the impeccable development of the story offer a sharp and penetrating look at delicate themes such as family and social class.
The narrative is structured in a way that constantly keeps the viewer's attention high, alternating moments of tension with instances of reflection and dark humor. The ease with which the film addresses and intertwines these topics is extraordinary, demonstrating rare sensitivity and depth.
The score and cinematography are exemplary, contributing to create an immersive and nuanced atmosphere. Every shot is meticulously crafted, every musical note perfectly synchronized with the emotions unfolding on screen.
The acting is simply masterful from the entire cast. Each actor, from the leads to the supporting characters, delivers a performance that further enriches the complexity and realism of the story.
The ending is incredible and satisfying, perhaps one of the best ever. The conclusion manages to surprise, move, and leave a profound reflection, closing the narrative circle impeccably.
This movie is simply perfect. Masterpiece
619. Yorum: im speechless
620. Yorum: My God, I am sooo happy that this amazing film had won Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and now Best International Feature Film! Tomorrow, I am going to watch this amazing film and remember that this is the only time great films like this will never get this kinda recognition for Best Picture! Now I can sleep better tonight! Bong Joon-Ho, you fucking deserved it!!! 🇰🇷
621. Yorum: Familiar structures, the place where concern lies, where trust lies, everything is a net of connections but everything is also fabricated. The commentary is precisely imagined and well detailed, with a particular care for social conflict and geographic conscience, the class struggle as a moral clash of voluntary servitude with crooked hiccup. Quite funny and dark.
Bong never leaves any loose ends diegetically, trying to always pick up visual motifs or particular gestures later on when something is emphasized, leaving everything tightly stringed up together. The ending, even if a bit underwhelming, can easily be misunderstood, as it’s the humorous conclusion of a sattire that comprehends our social and economical organization as a violent, stiffly deterministic system where the manipulation of its pieces is an extremely dangerous and complex business. One can only dream, alienated, with the perpetuation of a flawed system through the illusory relocation of elements given individual effort to end up in the tip of the pyramid, perhaps finding some rest and finally stopping to pretend.
622. Yorum: This film changed my life 4 years ago and made me love cinema.
623. Yorum: First time watching on 4K. Parasite is no doubt one of the greatest movies ever made released from the last year of the 2010s, and to be carefully crafted by the talented Bong Joon-ho! Will I buy it from the Criterion? Nah, the 4K format is good enough. Parasite is the only film I logged in so many times over and over. Well that and Joker. We as Americans don’t need to do a remake of it, it’s incredible the way it was made, and be remembered for generations of cinephiles! And if that happens, we might as well need to make a petition before we let the disgraceful, disgusting, and despicable bastards of Hollywood make it happen!
“The upper class has a lot of money, pays none of the taxes. The middle class pays all the taxes, and does all the work. The poor are there just to scare the shit out of the middle class! Keep them showing up at those jobs!”
George Carlin
1937-2008
624. Yorum: 
625. Yorum: rich people discuss me
626. Yorum: yeah i’m at a loss for words
627. Yorum: feels like i've not watched a film until now
628. Yorum: I wish I didn't watch that inferior Simpsons parody first.
This was a great movie that took me a while to get into near the start but it becomes really interesting. One thing to it is the lack of dub and only subtitled versions. This makes it a full attention movie and that kinda fits but it limits when it can be watched. It also has a problem that's not the movie's fault, but the translation feels very stale. Every line is phrased in a boring way that I have trouble imagining people saying things like that. It was more copying the dialouge into English instead of giving it personally. As for the actual movie itself, I don't think it's quite perfect. It takes a while for things to get going, some character motivations could have been better settup and while I like the ending, it kind of moves on from any climatic momentum the pace had. It also had trouble trying to establish a single protagonist, I would have preferred the focus being more split between the family equally. With those out of the way, this movie's commentery is very interesting. It has discussions on class, but done in a different way to most seen before. Their situation can be sympathetic, but the main family are bad people who do many unlikeable things in even just the first act. It complicates the morality idea, with the richer family seeming mostly naive and nicer. This makes it hard who to root for and it depends on the details. Do you want them to succeed because they are protagonists and in a poorer way of life of not? It's interesting the discussion where they say they would be nicer if they were rich but is that true. Does wealth effect a person's morality? Normally stories tackle greed causing evil so it's interesting to see it flipped like this to show it's possible on both sides of the system. This movie creates such a strong atmosphere and tone. It feels very tense and unnerving throughout the movie as if something's wrong is happening. The general feeling is there to make this feel partially horror without much asside from two scenes. The visual style is also strong with creative techniques used in it. The actors are good at the house sets just feel so different. This movie has a clever and entertaining way of showing tricks used, especially with the music adding to it. The climax part is intense and I like the lack of a satisfying ending. It has one thing, but cuts back as to show plans don't go through. This movie has a lot of little details that pay off and tie together. It is a very interesting story and characters, with the sister being the easy highlight of the family. Parasite is a great movie, I'm sure it completely deserved best picture or to be rated so highly but I see why it is known as that. It's a movie I'm very glad I watched because it is very strong for when watched at the right moment. Rich people be like...
629. Yorum: Do I even need to get into a preamble about the value and impact of Parasite? Is there truly anything that hasn't already been said about Bong Joon-ho's magnum opus? Could I have picked a better film to reel in my 23rd birthday? The answer to all of these questions is probably no, but after two meme reviews and a third separate watch, it feels like the fourth viewing of this masterpiece is due for a proper evaluation on my part.
With each rewatch, I find myself noticing new details in Parasite that make it that much more rewarding. Last time, I got a particular kick out of Mr. Park commending Ki-taek for being consistent in his profession only a scene or two after he just finished relaying to his family a series of failed career prospects. This time, I finally picked up on an early line that supports a clever double-meaning: when Ki-woo grabs Da-hye's wrist to check her pulse and says, "The heart doesn't lie." It's moments like these that make Parasite such a joyous experience to undertake over and over again. (After 4 viewings, the only thing that still confounds me is a line in which Chung-sook, after discovering the hidden bunker and its inhabitant, states "So that's how it happened." What "it" is she referring to exactly? Someone let me know!)
Very few films find their directors applying such unbroken focus in which every single decision made, both on the page and behind the camera, feels absolutely motivated and essential. Even bits that go unexplained like Moon-gwang's bruises and whether or not Da-song ends up living through his seizure in the end just add to the flavourful presentation. Bong sets up every important piece of information with pitch-perfect foresight, allowing for crucial occurrences to take place without ever feeling contrived (like the CCTV cameras being cut off, for instance).
A perfect example is the first scene in which we see the basement, when Moon-gwang retrieves the plum extract. Had the scene just consisted of her retrieving the juice, astute audience members would have put two and two together and immediately realized that this setting, which has never appeared before, would probably come into play more significantly down the road. But by having Yeon-gyo follow her and ask her there to spy on her daughter's English lesson, rather than waiting for the housekeeper to return upstairs, the first-time viewer is placed off-guard from the significance of that meeting's setting. Absolutely brilliant!
We may not live to see another moment that shook the filmgoing world like the Parasite shockwave that began with its unanimous rave reviews out of Cannes and culminated in a groundbreaking triumph at the Oscars. With South Korea's growing prominence in North American pop culture (mostly in the form of KPOP), it only seemed right that their movies would, at some point, reach such levels of widespread exposure. The fact that the movie in question would not only be widely accessible to a general audience, but would also happen to be an undisputed masterpiece, is just too good to be true. But man, did Bong earn every scrap of that praise!
That not a single person I've met who's seen Parasite has had anything but awe and admiration to heap upon its weary shoulders is a testament to "the little movie that could" taking the full David-and-Goliath route towards victory and emphasizing the true power of cinema. Such a powerhouse this is, in fact, that after so much justified ambiguity surrounding the film leading up to its release, I feel fully confident in writing this massively spoilerific review without any qualms, because you've all seen it, and I know you've all seen it! Well, see it again, because I've perused a few concerning 4-star ratings here and there, and if we're being perfectly honest, anything less than a 4-and-a-half (and even that's low-balling it) for Parasite is highly suspect...
630. Yorum: cute
631. Yorum: Parasite. 2019. Directed by Bong Joon Ho.
Bong Joon Ho and Jin-won Han’s nested screenplay is very much like a Hitchcock, Chabrol, and/or Truffaut film. In addition, David Fincher’s earlier filmography fits this genre as well. At any rate, the storytelling here is first rate and the cinematography make the home seem more grandiose than it actually was. In fact, the cinematography is perfect. All of the shots were perfectly framed. The run time was a bit long but, the acting, dialogue, and elegantly decorated set made the lengthy run time seem relative. Overall, this is a film I have seen many times. It was one of the last few I saw in the theater before lockdown due to the Pandemic. Nevertheless, if you are one of the few who haven’t seen Parasite, definitely watch it several times. It is a brilliant suspense but it is filled with some hilarious lol moments.

Lists: 
Top 175 Noir Films by DNA
Film Noir, Neo-Noir List
Top 150 Films by DNA
632. Yorum: This is such a great film. Put it on with my friends as neither of them had seen it. So great to see their reactions as I watched it by myself before. Wish I could have seen this in a packed cinema on my first viewing.
633. Yorum: For me Parasite is a great fable about social inequality and also the ingenious mix of genres.
634. Yorum: It's an experience. A bloody suspenseful one at that. I couldn't say much more without feeling like I'm ruining it.
Also, give this man the Best Director Oscar please. I know, I heard it.
635. Yorum: Saw this for my fourth time with friends.
A very metaphorical piece of art. One of the greatest films of the 2010's, and Bong Joon-ho's magnum opus.
Glory to the holy wifi!
I've got a full length review on my site, give it a read here.
636. Yorum: what. am i not gonna give this shit five stars. come on.
637. Yorum: 
638. Yorum: Was für ein absoluter Wahnsinnsfilm. Selten hat mich ein Film durch all meine fühlbaren Emotionen innerhalb von 2 Stunden gebracht wie 기생충. Ich habe viel gelacht, war dann gespannt, dann schockiert und dann traurig. Den Übergang habe ich selbst nicht mal mitbekommen. Handwerklich brillant, darstellerisch perfekt und erzählerisch der beste Film den ich seit Ewigkeiten gesehen habe. Und wenn er dann noch so unvorhersehbar ist, dass selbst jemand der knapp 3000 Filme gesehen hat, noch aus den Schuhen gekippt wird, ja dann...
Parasite ist DER Film, den man 2019 gesehen haben muss.
______________________________________________________________________________
What a hell of a movie. Rarely has a film brought me through all my tangible emotions within 2 hours like 기생충. I laughed a lot, was tense, then shocked and then sad. I didn't even notice the transition myself. Brilliant craftsmanship, perfect acting and narrative - the best film I've seen in ages. And when it's so unpredictable that even someone who has seen nearly 3000 films is still being thrown out of his shoes, then yes...
Parasite is THE movie you have to see in 2019.
639. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is a Discreet Charm of Bourgeoisie with a thriller spin. At its heart it's about how the poor cannibalize each other in hopes of living a lifestyle of the rich instead of demanding any change from the disparity between rich and poor. And though there are lots of twists, it's the buildup first-to-middle act, pre-twists, that is probably Bong's finest work as a filmmaker. It is precise, machine-like, and funny. And most biting in this satire is the respect that the rich receive simply for being rich, seemingly possessing no identifiable human qualities other than their impressive house by a famous architect.
For where the film ends up going, and I won't write that up here as it's best to go in extremely cold, I think Bong stays on the surface a little too much. It works best as a parable and shows a few blemishes in biting satire. Bong focuses on the separate society walls that make the rich so gullible to this family of grifters (employment recommendations are the highest currency because just getting to their doorstep is perceived as having walked a pre-vetted and merited path to get there) but also, Bong hinges most of the third act on a repeated comment of how the rich family views their staff as not fitting in: their smell. ("It's the smell of people who ride the subway.") And while this is an astute and stinging observation of class not just being money but a perceived elevation as more human, at first blush, it feels like Bong lets the rich family get away with too much. This works when they're presented to us through the parasitic poor family, because they're craftily taking advantage and also would like to live in such a house themselves, but when the closing carnage spins from this observation, it does feel like the most minor complaint of the rich when it comes to inequality. More telling is that prior to this spin, the rich patriarch of the family says "consider this your job" and reminds the double pay for a day, which was originally off, and how when someone rich pays for your presence they feel entitled to use it for whatever purpose imaginable that day.
640. Yorum: korean films continue raising the bar for cinema.
641. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho Films Ranked
2019 Ranked
Foreign Film Quest
This film was yet another enjoyable experience from Bong Joon Ho. My favorite part of his directing style is how he brilliantly is able to incorporate such fun comedy elements in his very intense, dark and twisted themed stories.
This story takes you on such a wild ride of emotions as we witness this low class family slowly manipulate their way into the lives of an elite family as there mentors and employers and become seduced by their wealth. But around every corner we get thrown into more and more bizarre situations that are both quirky and thrilling and it makes for such an emotional and fun experience.
This bizarre black comedy is pulled off so well because of the phenomenal acting accompanied by beautiful cinematography and a great soundtrack. And the characters are written with such depth that it gets you so invested in this story and plays with your fears and emotions this film was a wild ride and my favorite of Bong so far.
642. Yorum: “Does Oxford have a major in document forgery? Your sister would be top of the class.”
lots to unpack here. a family film, but not family-friendly. a drama, a comedy, a thriller, a horror movie. a social commentary, a captivity narrative. Parasite is many things but certainly not conventional. it’s this straying from genre formalities and embracing of a wildly engaging mix that makes it an experience™️. 
it’s a Bong Joon-Ho film alright. social commentary comes upfront but compared to the other three i’ve seen from him (The Host, Snowpiercer, Okja) this is the most grounded in reality and execution alike. the critique of social class is confined to essentially two model families and their respective homes as the main spaces, particularly the luxurious Park mansion with its sleek look. tensions rise as the gap becomes wider. 
the elegant camerawork mirrors this exhibition of riches with gliding motions around the house and full of rigid lines that set the caged mood. fantastic cinematography really, like watching a designer catalogue become a horror story. tense from the beginning but about halfway through it flips the switch and without saying too much... it’s a development to behold. i did not expect to feel SO MUCH and even less to laugh like i did. 
Bong Joon-Ho’s direction is so rhythmic and lulls you with a comfortable speed at first that then exceedingly escalates as things come together. and wow these actors make it look easy. one of my favorite general cast performances this year for sure. each of them an enigma that ever so slowly unveils their character’s truth. Kang-ho Song stands out. what a feast! 
had to watch in a cinema with only a french subtitled version which was exhausting as fuck since i’m not that good with the language anymore. very much worth the strain though and the film obviously speaks a thousand times more through visuals.
643. Yorum:  You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if you kill someone or betray your country, nobody cares. Got it?
Wow.
Going into to that, I thought it was going to be overrated. It was quite the opposite.
The whole movie was quite literally perfect, every seen masterfully planned out, down to every minute detail. All of the props and set design and script were excellent, especially all of the foreshadowing.
It was quite comedic, so I was surprised at the ending. Much more tragic, even if it did eventually turn out ok. It was almost as if the director wanted to blend a wholesome/tragic ending together. I thought that it was done very well.
The music score was excellent.
The cast were all new actors, and often this is actually a great idea, like in Breaking Bad or All Quiet on the Western Front. The acting was overall very professionally conveyed, which shows that all-star casts in movies are not always a good thing.
For some reason, while the whole thing was in Korean, I think that made it better. Obviously I had subtitles on, but it lets you hear how the language can convey different emotions compared to English.
The only problem I have is the rock. The rock was a cool concept, even if it ended up in the wrong hands, but I think it should have had more backstory/screen time. It's literally on the poster for the movie (on netflix, not here), and it didn't play a very big part overall, which I think it could have done.
644. Yorum: World Tour 2020
My family is a working class one.
My dad is a builder. He's supposed to be retiring in April because he had a liver transplant four years ago and shouldn't be pushing himself anywhere near as hard as he has been, plus his knees are now gone. But he couldn't retire any earlier because he couldn't afford to. My mum runs his business. My youngest brother works with him and my other brother is an electrician.
Our aspirations as a family have never been particularly lofty. We toyed with the idea of moving to Australia when I was in the sixth form but we never would have had enough money to do that. Personally, I'm not sure what mine were, my childhood is quite a long way in the distance now. These days I would just be happy with having enough to retire on, which is never going to happen without a lottery-assisted leg-up.
Nothing that we have hoped for or wanted is too much. Or at least I don't think it is. Yet it seems almost unachievable. Just to get themselves a quartet of decent jobs, the family in Parasite have to come up with an elaborate scheme that involves rehearsal, carefully cultivated lies and more than a pinch of good luck. They're not asking for much either.
They gain these jobs at the expense of people who have done nothing wrong. The only way they can get themselves into a position of comparative comfort is by stepping on those who are in the same spot as they are. This is what we are left doing. Clambering over each other, grasping desperately for the brass ring because this is the only choice we have. Or the only choice they have allowed us to have.
Parasite isn't a film about the upper class vs the working class. I've seen people cite The Servant, amongst other films, as a must-watch in 'preparing' to watch Bong Joon-ho's film. Parasite isn't really like The Servant though. This is about the working class being pitted against itself to scrap for some crumbs. This family isn't [REDACTED] at the end. One of them is [REDACTED], another is [REDACTED], one suffers from [REDACTED] and he is [REDACTED] with his mother.
There's only ever one winner.
645. Yorum: The first time I watched this, I knew it was something special. It was like nothing I had ever seen before, and as I’m making my way through Bong’s filmography, I realized that’s just a common reaction to his movies. No matter genre he makes a film within, he does something brand new with it. He’s truly a treasure. 
Watching this film slowly explode into something so monumental has been insane, and it makes me so happy to see. The more I see this, the more I find to love. I was constantly juggling between this and the lighthouse as favorites for 2019, but ultimately decided that nothing can beat this for me. Lighthouse comes close, but it doesn’t reach the level of great that this is to me. So darkly funny, thrilling, and even a bit terrifying. Truly deserving of the best picture prize, I’m glad that more people will probably see it because of that. Those that are mad simply that it’s a film in Korean truly don’t know what they’re missing. It didn’t win because it’s in another language. It won because it’s the film of the year.
646. Yorum: ✌️jessica, ✌️only child,✌️
from illinois, ✌️chicago.✌️
i'm a classmate of your cousin✌️
647. Yorum: ¿Cómo es que dejé pasar 5 años para verla? Qué película, ese final.
Mientras eso no suceda, cuídate.
No tengo nada que decir que el mundo no haya dicho ya, llegué tarde pero tampoco me arrepiento, viví la experiencia sin spoilers y eso es lo importante, la disfruté muchísimo, merecidos los premios que ganó.
648. Yorum: that sudden shift from comedy to horror?? what a treat
649. Yorum: I am utterly stunned and completely in awe of what I’ve just watched. Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite incapsulates the poverty scale like no other film I’ve ever seen; there are no heroes and villains; there’s no happy ending; there’s just a never-ending ladder of disparity, which everyone climbs to eat just a single crum of wealth.
Parasite is a complete masterpiece of filmmaking and theme through longing, meaningful cinematography, fantastic foreshadowing (the art teachers never last for long), and chilling visuals, especially the moment where the little boy encounters the "ghost". Through this, Parasite is able to create a realistic and terrifying depiction of wealth, resulting in a game of chance that the poverty cycle washes people through, leaving them worse off than when they started and right where they began.
650. Yorum: 
651. Yorum: I watched this with my aunt who had never seen it and is pretty wealthy. So of course, at the end, she turned to me and goes, “That was weird.” And I was so shocked! “Weird?” I gasped. “He didn’t have to kill Mr. Park. He did nothing wrong!” 
I then went on to explain the pent up anger. The smell. The rain. The class war. I asked her to put herself in Mr. Kim’s shoes. 
“I just don’t have any empathy for someone who is poor and doesn’t dry to better themselves and then kills someone who gave him a job and was nice to him. It’s stupid. It’s like these BLM protests. All this looting and destruction just because they can’t make anything of themselves.”

And that’s when I just stopped the conversation. 
I guess I’m glad I watched this with her. It opened my eyes to the stupidity and incapability that some people have when trying to empathize with anyone who is lower than them on the social level. 
My aunt was loving the movie up until the point when it called out people like her. Made her uncomfortable. Probably made her reflect on her own life. I’ve seen how she treats waiters at restaurants or cashiers at drive thru’s. Anyone who is “lower than her”,  she treats them as if they are unworthy of her time. 
So I’m happy this movie made her question her morals, or lack thereof. I’m glad it made her uncomfortable. I didn’t think I could love this movie more than I already do - but making my bigoted aunt upset makes this one of my favorite films of all time. 
Eat the fucking rich. 
652. Yorum: I missed this back in February when it was released in cinemas (remember those things?) and I guess I'm pretty late to the party now but, I held out and went in knowing as little as possible and now, well this is likely to be my favourite film of 2020.
I like how political cinema is getting right now, it's truly reflecting the deep inequalities of our time. I mentioned in my Joker review last year that political filmmaking cannot and indeed should not be the sole domain of my favourite filmmakers, Ken Loach or Mike Leigh, because their reach in terms of audience is much smaller than your average blockbuster. In my view genre cinema needs to be subverted to say something about the world we live in, challenge convention and call for change.
Parasite is genre cinema, it's just that the genre turns on a sixpence at any given moment. The first half is a glorious, playful long con; an entertaining hustle movie that is impossible to watch without a big smile on your face. Somewhere around the halfway mark however, the tone shifts. Drama dictates that a threat must arise and things suddenly get a lot more unpredictable and much darker. The genius of Bong Joon-Ho - and he is a genius, having watched just two of his films I feel wholly comfortable in saying that - is that these gear changes are as smooth as the driving of one of his central protagonists. Bong has an innate ability to prepare his audience by richly texturising every moment of his film so that we are aware of the social commentary that drives the narrative. It's impossible to ignore the depravation of the Kim family, just as it is equally impossible not to sympathise with their desire to seize upon the chance to better themselves, no matter how wicked, morally dubious or illegal their methodology in capitalising upon that chance may actually be. Indeed it is arguably here where Bong's social commentary reaches peak clarity; this is a film about the working classes set against one another for the scraps left behind by a sheltered, wealthy class who oftentimes scarcely even notice them... at least when they're downwind.
Parasite is an almighty success, defying the odds by being a rare Korean hit with Western audiences (to the chagrin of Donald Trump who obviously was hardly going to be a fan of anything that is at once both foreign and points out socio-economic inequality) simply because what it has to say transcends the language barrier. The notion of class inequality is universal, and Bong records it not just in a manner that is thought provoking, but in one that is both deeply thrilling, wickedly comic, wholly entertaining and beautifully played by his incredible ensemble cast.
653. Yorum: It’s slowly becoming one of my favourite films honestly..
654. Yorum: Mr Kim cured my anxiety by reassuring me that I can't go wrong if I have no plan.
655. Yorum: I can’t explain how tense this movie made me feel. Never really seen anything quite like it.
656. Yorum: Pretty friggin' great. Twisted and hilarious, on the edge of my seat for 80% of the runtime, thought-provoking and filled to the brim with great performances, I can totally understand why this film is garnering it's praise.
A little to touchy-feely at one point, though. I mean, I understood the situational irony but still it was a bit much. Anyone who's seen the movie knows what I'm talking about.
657. Yorum: As a fan of Bong Joon-ho I was very excited to see this film and I'm very glad I was able to as soon as I could, especially considering I was particularly excited to see him making another Korean language film. This film somehow lived up to the already immense hype surrounding it from Cannes and elsewhere, blowing me away and being probably his best film and possibly the best film of the year.
This film overall was an absolute blast to watch. Anyone who's familiar with this director will definitely expect certain aspects of filmmaking quality that are basically a trademark in all of his films, like the impressive direction and pitch-perfect staging of the actors as well as the perfectly balanced blend of different tones. This rings very true with this film as well, with this last aspect being especially well-handled: it is pretty astonishing to see a film that is both funny, intense and scary each in really effective ways, sometimes all within the same scene, and just shows how much this director is in control of his craft, creating an experience that’s a true rollercoaster of emotions.
Almost every individual aspect of this film is top-notch. The acting is absolutely fantastic: all the actors do an excellent job performing and portraying their characters, with the characters themselves each having a lot of depth to them and being very well-defined, memorable and unique and entertaining in their own ways; each one has their purpose in the film and adds to the overall experience, and by the end of the film you feel like you know them like the palm of your hands, caring for them in everything they go through. The writing in general is just fantastic and pretty brilliant: if the superb handling of different tones and the careful detail in the characters weren't already enough, it also has a very engaging and entertaining plot and sequence of events that manages to be unpredictable with twists and turns while at the same time making subtle statements and having a lot of subtext to interpret and think about after the film ends, with plenty of clever and purposeful reincorporation as well.
The pacing is absolutely phenomenal and pretty much perfect: the film grabs you from the very beginning and constantly moves along, never feeling boring in the slightest and making the 2h12min runtime just fly by, with every scene developing the story and/or characters accordingly.
The music was also absolutely fantastic, accentuating different tones very well, and very appropriately used, making certain scenes exhilarating and an absolute blast to watch; it's very well shot with great shot composition and lighting, making certain shots look absolutely beautiful, and it has consistently great camerawork that always complements the scene. The set design is fantastic as well and, last but not least, this film has one of the best and most powerful resolutions and ending scenes to a film I've seen in a while.
This film blew me away and had me enthralled and in awe as I was watching it, being one of the most engaging experiences I've had with a film in a very long time, and after letting it sit for a couple of days it's constantly growing on me the more I think about it and I'm becoming more and more certain that it's a masterpiece, and I really don't have any issues with it other than very small nitpicks that are honestly fading away the more time passes and hold less value the more I think about them. I think that a film that I enjoyed immensely and thoroughly and also left me with plenty to think about for days after watching it is pretty exceptional, and the more I think about it the better it gets and I can see myself rewatching it a million times in the future, since it has everything I would want out of a film.
Sooooo yeah, Bong Joon-ho knocked it out of the park with this. This is a film that's not even been released in most of the world as of now and yet I think it might already be a classic (and I can see it appearing on the IMDb Top 250 someday as well): it is a crazy experience that is incredibly effective in multiple ways, being really accessible and entertaining while at the same time pretty challenging in its own ways, and I seriously cannot wait to see it again. I will definitely need to revisit this and "Memories of Murder" to determine which one is my favorite but regardless you should probably check out every film in Bong Joon-ho's filmography. If you want to see a master of his craft at work then I'd definitely recommend checking this one out as soon as you can. Don't look up anything and just GO SEE IT, you definitely won't regret it.
P.S.: Definitely gotta agree with it having one of the best uses of peaches in film along with Call Me by Your Name (although it's nothing like that film lol). It resulted in two specific scenes making me go "Oh my god this is awesome!"
Edit: Hey I knew it, it made it onto the IMDb top 250, hope it stays there!
658. Yorum: ‪My favourite film this year so far! Watch it when you get the chance! Never saw anything quite like it. Can‘t wait to watch it again!

Nachtrag auf Deutsch: Die deutsche Synchro ist sehr gelungen, wie ich finde. Dieses Meisterwerk ist also auch synchronisiert absolut sehenswert!
659. Yorum: (While I don’t blatantly spoil anything specific, I wouldn’t read this if you would like to go in completely blind, I suppose.) 

Seeing this again in theaters was completely and totally worth it. The amount of dots I connected this time around is astounding. It’s the sort of film that just benefits upon several vieweings, there’s always new details to pick up. I wanna see it again as soon as possible. 
Everything about this is so wonderfully crafted, it doesn’t miss a single beat. There isn’t a dull moment, nothing feels out of place or bloated in any way. There’s so much to think about, even after seeing it several times. Even in small things like the poster and title, there are several layers and ways to look at it. 
For the most part, a lot of what to get out of it is up to the viewer. Who do you want to root for? Which characters are good? Which characters are evil? What really IS good and evil? Is anybody really ANYTHING? Who’s the parasite? WHAT is the parasite? Even after several viewings, I am unsure of these answers, and they honestly shift each time I watch. 
This takes the sort of poor and rich family stories (honestly wouldn’t even call it just that) we’ve seen so many times and completely flips it, making you question everything you thought you knew. Each time you watch you can watch it from a new perspective, and see the film’s world through different eyes. It’s exciting, thrilling, darkly funny, and relevant. Not to mention that it’s also very good on a technical and filmmaking level. Wonderfully shot (it is indeed the best food movie since Phantom Thread, it’ll leave you HUNGRY), well acted (the characters are so well portrayed that they feel like real people that anybody can know), it’s truly something to behold, no matter what aspect of it you look at. 
All in all, Parasite is a film that transcends genre, becoming its own original piece of work that could probably fit into several sub categories, but doesn’t conform completely to any of them. What an achievement, certainly one of the best of the year, and one of the best to come out in awhile. An instant classic.
660. Yorum: Woah. Holy Shit. The consequences of the socioeconomic classes inequality portrayed in a horrific and vicious way, that is political but executed in a subtle way, spoken through this modern cinematic masterpiece. Bong Joon-Ho take a bow.
Marco's Top 100 Films #53
661. Yorum: Maybe the real parasite was the friends we made along the way.
662. Yorum: Welch Vorschusslorbeeren gingen da einher.
Von Kino+ Folge 273 bis Folge 300 und auch wohl in Folge 600 wird dieser genannt. Von Youtube-Channel Dingsbumsbumsering bis zu Z wie Zabrakadabra. Von Cinema Strikes Back bis zu Robert Hoffmann. Von den renommiertesten Filmkritikern bis zu den möchtegern Kritikern. Von TV-Magazin schlag mich tot bis zu der in den Postkasten wandernden Werbung X Punkt 0.
Abgekürzt gesagt: Parasite war das MUSS, das Ding der Dinge, das Pflichtprogramm für jeden Filmliebhaber und der es sein könnte, der Film des Jahres und, ersten Rezension zu schließen, der Film des Jahrzehnts.
Zu meinem "großen" Leidwesen verpasste ich diesen Film vorab auf der Leinwand zu sehen - das kleine Lände hatte da ein gewichtiges Wort mit zu reden. Also verstrich die Zeit mit Däumchen drehen, Löcher in die Luft starren, in der Nase bohren, und allen anderweitigen Ablenkungsmöglichkeiten ein Sitzen auf heißen Kohlen.
Dann war es soweit, in vertrauter Zweisamkeit mit meinem besten Freund wurde der Film (im O-Ton) angemacht.
Der erste Eindruck ein abwartendes, in sich verharrendes Gesicht. Mit dem zweiten Eindruck der im Eiltempo daher gerast kam, zuckte der Schläfenmuskel vor Verwunderung. Der dritte sich mir erschließende Eindruck und dem davor vorausgehenden "warte die zweite Hälfte ab" meines besten Freundes, begann mein Schläfenmuskel wild zu hämmern. Mit dem vierten Eindruck, dem Ende des Films, ließ das presslufthammerartige Pochen nach, es war einem noch heute und in den kommenden Jahren mit sich tragendem Fragezeichen gewichen.
Die Gründe:
Das parasitische Einnisten der, ihre Armut unterstrichen in dem plakativen, den Machern aber weniger anzukreidenden Hausen der Kims in einem zu erwartendem schmuddeligen Keller und dem darin niedergelassenen Gestank in die wohlhabende Familie Park, die, wie könnte es die Plakativität nicht unterlassen, sinnbildlich ihres Wohlstandes in einem auf einem Hügel errichteten Villa leben, wurde mittels der gezwungen anzunehmenden Naivität und schlichten Dummheit einer Mrs. Park gerechtfertigt das darüber hinaus in einer Schnelle und Leichtigkeit von statten geht, die mir damals wie vorgestern beim Rewatch übel aufgestoßen war und heute bei dieser Review nach wie vor ist.
Welch Mindfuck, welch linksdrehen des aufgebauten, etablierten Settings mit ihren darin gefestigten Figuren die zweite Hälfte da einem offenbarte und aufzwang zu akzeptieren, erreichte mit den betätigen der Lichtschalter für den Wohnbereich der Villa durch den im Keller "gefangen" gehaltenen Ehemann der hinausgeekelten Haushälterin Mrs. Moon-gwang in der Heimkehr des Hausherren Mr. Park meinen ganz eigenen Höhepunkt der gerunzelten Stirn, des Schulterzuckens, des häääs!
Der positivste Aspekt dieses Werkes lieg in seinen vier Oscars gewonnenen, unteranderem für den besten Film des Jahres - dem ersten Fremdsprachigen Film der dies gelang und Hollywood damit ein mittelschweres Beben in der Filmlandschaft ausgelöst hatte.
663. Yorum: 
664. Yorum: Why do I have to watch every movie twice to realize how brilliant it is?
665. Yorum: 🍑's am I right? If you know, you know. 
My first Bong Joon-ho film in theaters and it was just incredible. Well worth the INSANE amount of hype surrounding this. It became more and more engrossing for me as the film progressed. It's also relentlessly engaging, exciting and even pretty funny. The depiction of class inequalities was ever so present and it felt like Bong explored every crevice of that between the two families. A lot to be impressed by, but the standouts for me are the direction, production design and screenplay. 
If you were like me and had suspicions of where the film would go because of the title, just you wait. One of my favourite films of 2019 and even though I think I like Okja the most, this is without a doubt another Bong hit.
666. Yorum: class consciousness in the 2010s deserves a lucid and incisive critique of capital and the way it warps our minds, and this trite 'Us'-level allegory ain't it, fam.
more complete review forthcoming if i get more mad about how bad this was in the next few days

(a few days pass)

i think i've figured out why i didn't love this film. while it's good, and i'm glad it exists, it's not a particularly well done or well communicated allegory. walking out of the cinema with a few friends and talking, the only salient insight i could glean was "damn class really do be like that tho"
the fact that the lower class family treats every other worker in their position as a competitor, and ultimately dispensible in their quest for more is an insightful point, and an interesting indictment on neolib capitalism.
however, the rest of this film falls back on very traditional and basic conceptions of class antagonism, to the point where the climax of the film hinges on a cartoonish "P.U! poor ppl smell bad lol" plot point. very few people actually act that way, and i am far more interested in the ways those attitudes are incubated, enabled and obscured by capital. 
that goes to another gripe of mine: these characters are caricatures, and i didn't feel anything for them. there may be a level of intent behind that but it is lost on the fact that Parasite didn't say anything more substantial than "we live in a society", or if it tried to, it was unsuccessful.

all of these gripes flow on to the major issue i have with this film: for all of its focus on class, Parasite does not pick sides between either family or class, to the point that, in my eyes, it fails to say almost anything useful to me. the rich family are kind of vapid idiots, but the poor family are the ones that do all of the damage and the morally reprehensible things in this film. again, i get that this cannibalisation of the worker class is an interesting point, but it is not enough to sustain the appeal of this movie for me.
i'm sticking with my original negative rating even though i've warmed to this film a little in recent days purely because for all of the hype about this film's political appeal, it was a fucking disappointment.
if you want a more incisive look at class in a modern South Korean context watch Burning instead.
667. Yorum: 12 year old me after a sleepover at my rich friend’s house (i ate all her candy)
668. Yorum: masterpiece
669. Yorum: An incredible piece of stand-out foreign cinema. Utterly compelling, and packed with brilliant artistic choices and symbolism. This is a masterpiece.
670. Yorum: How to spell bong joon-ho:
Parasite is the best movie of this year and bong joon-ho deserve an Oscar for your amazing and genuine work on this movie
671. Yorum: Masterfully created. What else could you give it except 5 stars? Mickey 17 has a lot to live up to.
672. Yorum: the most fascinating thing about this film is that before watching it, you think “oh it cannot possibly be THAT good” then you watch it and it's actually even better than people say it is.
673. Yorum: Parasite - Bong Joon ho
The film revolves around the story of two families from different social backgrounds - the wealthy Park family and the struggling Kim family. The Kims infiltrate the lives of the Parks by securing various positions within their household. What starts as a story of deception and social commentary on class divides takes unexpected twists and turns, delving into darker themes of greed and manipulation.
Parasite is a well made film with brilliant performances from its cast, and deep social commentary. It skillfully combines genres, transitioning from comedy to drama and suspense and exposes the harsh realities of class inequality. This fully deserved the Palme d’Or at the 2019 Cannes film festival …brilliant film.
674. Yorum: It’s cool when the Academy gets it right
675. Yorum: i'll never get tired of watching this
676. Yorum: 
677. Yorum: Before Parasite is done, you will ask the film, "what the fuck," and you will be glad you did.
On a personal level, I have been on a mini-stretch lately of watching forgettable fodder, so this memorable movie is a breath of fresh air; sweet, violent, and comically dark fresh air.
678. Yorum: “Don’t call me sis, you filthy bitch!”
I don’t know why but some scenes just made me tear up for no reason and they weren’t even the sad parts. Maybe I just love it so much, you know? This is what Parasite can do to you, bringing tears to your eyes without you realizing that you’re actually crying.
679. Yorum: and that’s on peaches
680. Yorum: Fantastic, loved it, Joon-ho nails this one, perfect mixture of suspense, terror and comedy. The only thing keeping me from giving it 5 stars is how much of the movie was telegraphed. But still a great ride.
This has to be the best year for Oscar nominated best picture.
Best picture nom order.
1. Marriage Story
2. The Irishman
3. Once Upon A Time in Hollywood
4. Little Women
5. JoJo Rabbit
6. Parasite
7. Ford vs Ferrari
8. 1917
9. Joker
4-6 are interchangeable.
681. Yorum: MASTERPIECE! Parasite deserves all the praise and awards it has received and more. It is really refreshing to see a truly deserving movie receive this kind of feedback.
While I recognise that nothing is perfect, the flaws in this movie are really hard to find. Every element of the movie is well thought out and detailed, and you can see that it was made by someone with great love and respect for art. Direction, acting, editing and screenplay are flawless, and the message comes through powerfully and well constructed.
682. Yorum: i could not understand what they were saying
683. Yorum: Arguably co-writer and director Bong Joon-ho's most accomplished work as a filmmaker to date, Parasite is a film that not only lives up to the immense hype leading up to it (well, mainly from Film Twitter and mutuals) but somehow manages to surpass and even shatter it, rewarding its viewers with an uncomfortably hilarious, unapologetically bleak, and powerfully acted satirical thriller that's as wildly unpredictable as it is staggeringly well-crafted.
684. Yorum: i’d be right next to ki-jung smoking that cigarette cause what the hell else can you do?
685. Yorum: Here’s the announcement: I’m so proud to announce tonight’s relaunch of The Global Film Podcast! Featuring weekly roundtables with Letterboxd users, critics from Variety, Indiewire among others, and cinephiles, & filmmakers, we discuss everything from new releases to awards predictions and more! Check out our slate for the rest of the year, and scroll down to the end if you’d like to sign up to guest star on a future episode!
EPISODE 1: DISABILITY IN FILM arrives later today. Featuring discussions on Run & Sound of Metal from disabled perspectives, and appearances from Aneesh Chaganty & Natalie Qasabian, the roundtable is with Letterboxd’s Lucy May, Lawrence Carter Long, Indiewire’s Kristen Lopez & Kevin Thomas
EPISODE 2 arrives 12/18, featuring a critic roundtable with InSession Film’s Ryan McQuade, Filmotomy & Clapper’s Carson Timar, and Film Updates’s Nabeel on MANK, BLACK BEAR, & NOMADLAND.  

EPISODE 3 arrives on 12/23, featuring a critic roundtable discussion with Matt Neglia of NextBestPicture, Ryan McQuade, Kate Sanchez, and Rosa’s Reviews on PROMISING YOUNG WOMAN, NEWS OF THE WORLD, & SOUL
Our last episode of the year will be a cinephile roundtable with a Knives Out table read co-hosted by Letterboxd’s Haydn and featuring some very special guests as well 👀👀! We still have slots open for that one so make sure to reach out to us if you want to appear on it!
We’ll be on all podcast platforms and we will have a limited amount of early access links available upon request for each episode. Make sure to DM me on Twitter if you want one, and if any of you want to come and join us on an episode next year, please do reach out to me through there too, as my DM’s are always open!
686. Yorum: 100
While I am very glad that this film exists for me to fawn over in awe almost all the time, it's also a bit disheartening because as an aspiring filmmaker in the works I just know I'll never make anything even close to being *this* good.
Also in a Bizzaro World where this was a Hollywood movie you bet your ass they would've ended it right when (REDACTED) walks up the stairs in the end and it fades to black.
687. Yorum: I don't have much to say that you haven't already heard. So, I'm just gonna say that the dog under the bed is what I call cinema.
688. Yorum: The People Under The Stairs
Masterful storytelling, unfolds with such a quiet efficiency that one gets the sense it could have been 100x more anxiety-provoking had that been the goal. As is it vividly reminds me of a recurring dream I have about being in someone else's house. A wonderful skewering of class issues in Korea!!
689. Yorum: 
690. Yorum: Jegliche Lobeshymnen sind vollkommen gerechtfertigt und verdienen auch jegliche komplett spoilerfreie Anerkennung. Einfach über nichts informieren und dieses Kunstwerk auf sich wirken lassen! Wirklich meisterhaft, wie Parasite jede mögliche Erwartungshaltung wiederlegt und vollkommen zwanglos zwischen starken Tonänderungen variiert, ohne den erzielten Effekt zu verfehlen und erneut beweist, dass das koreanische Kino das faszinierendste der Filmindustrie bleibt. Vom großartigen Schauspiel, der eindringlichen Tonarbeit und glänzenden Kameraführung mal ganz abgesehen bietet Parasite eine Vielschichtigkeit voll von Symbolik und frei von Konventionen, wie ich es selten gesehen habe.
691. Yorum: 2019 was THE year of the movies.
692. Yorum: 10/10
My sixth watch.
Bought and watched in celebration (obviously) of one of the best nights of my life. My dad made us some Korean barbecue for dinner because our whole household was rooting for this movie, and look what happened. I'm here to say it all - "Another Bong hit," "It crossed a line," "It's so metaphorical." I'm here to say that Parasite is something truly special. My favorite of the year, my favorite of the decade, and one of my favorites of all time. And now it's a best picture winner. We did it, we fucking made it happen. This movie couldn't be better and I couldn't be happier.
693. Yorum: You know... the word “masterpiece” gets thrown around a lot these days.
But this movie... this movie is the definition of it.
Somehow even better on a second watch, and the first watch was one of the greatest theater experiences of my life. Somehow it flows even better once you know how everything plays out, and you’re just left in awe of it and how literally everything fits together so beautifully. In my first review I mostly tried to judge it on a critical and objective level (therefore calling it excellent) cause I was just so shocked by the directions it took and blown away by it overall, that I couldn’t digest everything it has to say and all the little details after only one viewing, so I was insanely looking forward to a rewatch. And yeah, let me just say there’s a TON of that in this film. Every single interaction, character and plot development works, no single element is left to chance, everything is so deliberate and crazy yet so controlled and focused at the same time. This is seriously Storytelling 101 and especially Screenwriting 101: everything is set up and pays off in one way or another, there’s tons, TONS of foreshadowing and little details and clever reincorporation to pick up on with multiple viewings (some of which I’m sure I’ve yet to find), whether from the dialogue or specific shots or anything else, and everything is perfectly paced and structured obviously. There are no “villains” in this film either, just “real” people with plenty of depth and easily understood and relatable motivations, highlighting the tragedy of the story all the more as a result. Other than that, there are so many just perfect shots and sequences in this film (a highlight on this watch was the scene with the Gianni Morandi song, well done Bong!), in both concept and execution, and the score is probably one of the best ever and easily my favorite of the year, it’s so good it could easily be mistaken for pre-existing classical music that wasn’t actually composed for the film.
It’s actually insane how good this movie is. It goes by in what feels like a few minutes, it gets better every time I watch it and the more I think about it and it’s honestly slowly moving its way into my top 10 of all time, it’s just that good. It truly is the complete package, it has everything I could possibly want out of a film. It reminded me why I love movies in the first place, and it’s exactly the type of film I wish I would make if I ever became a filmmaker.
Anyway, words can’t describe how good this movie is. Masterpiece. Best film of the year. Go watch it immediately if you haven’t. If you fear that I might be hyping it up too much, just go watch it, and you’ll realize what I’m talking about; I sometimes even fear I might be hyping it up too much, but I seriously doubt anyone will walk out of this film disappointed or feeling that the hype is unjustified.
694. Yorum: - You know what kind of plan that never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
I was really scared the praise for this would lowkey ruin it for me because of expectations. Sometimes that happens when you watch a movie with excellent reviews. I am happy to confirm that was not the case here. This movie is PERFECT. The direction, the cinematography, the script, the performances. WOW.
Parasite is a movie directed by Joon-ho Bong and it won the Palm D' Or @ Cannes earlier this year and once you watch it, you understand why this has been praised by everyone. Its a movie hard to describe or box into any genre. Its funny, thrilling, suspenseful, exciting, and sad. Its a movie that you might think where its going, but oh boy! you have no idea. Its hard to guess and very unexpected. Joon-ho Bong really created a modern masterpiece of cinema. I really feel sorry for the people who avoid foreign language movies because they're too lazy to read subtitles. This movie cannot be missed. I cant wait to watch it again. Asian cinema has been on a roll these past years with Burning, shoplifters and this. Oh before I forget this is like shoplifters on steroids. That's how good it is.
MVPs: the 4 members of the family but the lady who played the previous made was a scene stealer.
PS: I know there's a few buzzy titles but I'm rooting so hard for this to win the foreign language movie @ the Oscars. It will be hard to top this one.
Thanks for reading. Have a good week yall!
695. Yorum: Song kang ho I love you I love you I love you
696. Yorum: Watched this one with a friend—finished at 5am and then immediately proceeded to walk to the World Trade Center and got back at 8am
697. Yorum: Previous review here
Never has a peach and a "send" button been so threatening. That's a testament to an insanely superb screenplay by Bong Joon-ho.
Parasite is one of those films that seems to evoke a lot of genres. It's not one thing. It just is.
Multiple rewatches allow you to catch more things you might not have noticed before.
A masterclass of writing, filmmaking, and social commentary.
99%
2019 Ranked: #1
My 100 of the 2010's: #15
Movie Collection
698. Yorum: Yes, I’m watching this movie late, and part of me didn’t think it could live up to the hype... but I was pleasantly surprised - top 20 for sure. 
It’s plot is told in such a visual way, with such interesting clues and cinematography that you don’t even need the subtitles - but the dialogue is still written in such a subtle way that it works great. 
In a true Bong Joon-ho way, there’s a moment in this where the floor of the plot falls through and the movie is flipped on it’s head - but it’s somehow so quick that you don’t notice the genre change. In fact, there are so many swift genre changes that happen so naturally and  smoothly that you only notice in hindsight.
Once the floor of the plot breaks, the plot is in an absolute and wonderful free fall, but to my own surprise, it manages to stick the landing with a thoughtful ending.
699. Yorum: Rich people are naive. No resentment. No creases on them.
Rating hasn’t changed.
500th diary entry.
Watched the B&W version.
Like c’mon. What more can I say that hasn’t been said millions of times about this film?????
Parasite is a film that only comes once in a lifetime. Once in a generation.
I directed to rewatch ‘Parasite’ for the 1 year celebration honour of their Oscar winning night. The night where they came and then they conquered. Winning the holy grail that is best picture.
The whole metaphor of the film is success and fortune are only reserved for those who deserves it whilst other people not in that position tries to climb onto the ladder doesn’t just refer to South Korea, Bong refers to the entire world. The widening gap of the rich and the poor. What he also shows us how both people of the scale lives, how they deal with social and financial issues. Bong plays with us, he makes a guessing game of which family in the film is actually the most rotten, the family that’s cunning who live in a basement, or the polar opposite family. The extents we go to have the best lives we can possibly have.
This fully deserves the nominations it got and it fully deserves the wins it achieved. I can’t find a single fault with this film. And that’s a hard task to achieve. This is one in a few movies that doesn’t have any faults. Every shot is framed perfectly, it’s shot beautifully (it even looks more beautiful in B&W), the editing doesn’t miss a beat everything is edited on point. That helps the pace go unbelievable quick. Even with the plot twist that happens towards the end, the film makes you feel like there is some tension somewhere.
The only thing I would say is that, I wish the actors got some recognition at the Oscars. Especially Kang-ho Song as Ki (the father of the poor family) I just hoped the academy nominated him or anyone in the film. Shame that didn’t happen.
Bong has crafted a masterpiece that won’t be topped in its craftsmanship, filmmaking, praise, metaphorical messages. The way this film has impacted hundreds of thousands of people. The way it has left its footprint on films. The way it impacted awards season. A film without faults. A film that only comes once in a lifetime. ‘Parasite’ will never be topped.

Top 100: boxd.it/55aA0
Bong: boxd.it/b8DLw
2020: boxd.it/5lXvq
700. Yorum: This is the Citizen Kane of films
701. Yorum: A perfect movie exists and it’s called Parasite.
702. Yorum: 
703. Yorum: Parasite is two sides of a cinematic coin; the first half is a rousing character-driven social satire, the second is an expertly directed social thriller. The first viewing I felt a little distanced from the second half because the character peelbacks stopped and it was all reaction to a heightened situation. On the second viewing, knowing where it’s going, what Bong Joon-ho achieves hits me harder. It’s two halves about the haves and have nots, two genres, and two viewings make the whole even more rewarding... even if it’s all a little too perfect for me to stand up and applaud (the whole elaborate plan goes off without a hitch and first sign of trouble dad says, “plans don’t work!”)
704. Yorum: This is so fucking peak fuckkkkk. Bong Joon-Ho 
Got me cursing in my reviews tn. I’m amazed 
I just witnessed greatness a psychological 
Masterclass of storytelling…profound imagery 
Such an artistic sense of creativity and vision 
                                        This shit fucks so hard.
705. Yorum: well, wasn’t that peachy
706. Yorum: Without a doubt, the easiest 5 star rating I’ve ever given. This film exceeds expectations on every possible level, even on a second watch. It is the most popular, and the highest rated film on Letterboxd for good reason. It appeals to the cinephile crowd by being filled with allegory and metaphor while exploring and questioning the underlining fundamentals of the systems that have always been in place, and it also appeals to general audiences by being one of the most wildly entertaining movies ever, excellent usage of editing, and an original premise which is fascinating enough to keep your interest for the entire film. I find the juxtaposition of the opposite social classes to be pretty spot on at times, but it’s effective nonetheless. If I had to say one negative thing about this film, it would be about how Bong portrays the lower class Kim family as people who are only capable of getting by through living a con life. But I also don’t fully disagree with this portrayal because in a way, the lower class is powerless to the hierarchies of a capitalist society. But really, Bong portrays this family as lazy over anything, unmotivated to even complete the simple task of folding pizza boxes. But this misportrayal of an entire social class is quickly lost in the insanity of the turn that the film takes in the second half. 
And what a turn this second half takes. A flawlessly executed change in tone if you ask me. It was at this point that Parasite flipped the switch, turning into a horrifying, subversive nightmare. The crazy thing about this tone shift is that it can’t even be called a plot twist. Every second after that doorbell rings is a different movie from the first half. Darker, more challenging, and as haunting as anything you have ever seen. I think I enjoy the first half of Parasite more than the second, but the second half of this film is indescribably amazing. It is for this second half that Parasite gets the reputation as the dark thriller that is possibly the finest film of this past decade. One of the aspects of this film I find most fascinating is the Park’s camping trip. The fact that rich people purposely worsen their living conditions for a short period of time, for leisure, is mind blowing to me when there are many lower class people who are living in tents every day barely getting by. This is an excellent example of the ignorance of rich people to those who live at a lower standard to them. The montages in Parasite are some of the best I’ve ever seen in cinema, with the peaches montage standing out among them all as the most well done. Parasite is one of the most greatest, most accessible  films that has come out in a while, their is no other way to put it. It is a masterpiece in all facets, and I find no major flaws in the film. 
Number 7 on my Top 50 favorites of all time
707. Yorum: (Spoilers ahead)
First things first, this was a beautiful, funny, unique, thrilling and poignant movie and one of my highlights this year for sure.
But on a deeper note, I have a real issue with it that I can't shake off and comes up every time i think about it. The depiction of the poor and the rich in general and the notion that terrible things will be the consequence and everyone will suffer if we mix these two social classes together.
Generally speaking, I have a hard time dealing with clear black and white portrayals of things, even in art, because reality usually lays somewhere in the middle. I'll show you what I mean here:
While the rich show trust, the poor show mistrust.
While the rich show altruism, the poor show egoism.
While the rich show affection and care, the poor show brutality and violence.
While the rich care for the wellbeing and reputation of the poor, the poor ignore the fate of others and are merely driven by selfishness.
While the rich open up their home to strangers, the poor ask the question "why did you come all the way inside, when you could've just waited outside for me?"
While the rich generously pay inflation adjusted and extra wages for weekends and let their employees, which they treat more like friends, have as much food as they like, the poor screw each other over for 10% of their wages because they tried to cheat instead of doing their job properly.
While the rich parents care about the wellbeing and careers of their children, the poor ones don't at all and instead let their kids pay for their food.
While the rich show empathy and respect when they fire their driver without telling him about the real reason behind it to not embarrass him, the poor show no remorse and no hesitation when it comes to making others lose their jobs for their own benefit.
While the rich care about their community and throw a party for their friends, the poor ignore their own peers even when someone who is almost drowning is screaming for help.
While the rich suffer from an unjust punishment they don't deserve, the poor avoid theirs.
And so on...
I'm a big believer of the freedom of art, of course a movie can depict the rich and the poor class any way it wants, but I am truly not seeing the purpose for it. Why do we need a movie like this in 2019? I'm not trying to politicise this film, but I can't help but feel irritated about this, since it is my honest and personal believe that the wealthiest 1% of people, which the Park family represents here, are doing way to well and the bottom 10% of people, like the Kim family as a counterpart, have to struggle way too hard in life. And it gets even worse, instead of showing the complexity of people of every class, every single representative of the poor class here is depicted as a cheating, lying, egoistic crook. The former housekeeper and her husband also took advantage of the Park family, and the rest of the people are not helping each other in times of a catastrophe, they haggle over wages, they piss in the street and yell at each other. In the world of the rich, they remain the parasites, the violent, cheating rats, taking advantage of the stupidly naive rich, who in their opionion are only friendly, "because they are rich". And their fate is selfmade. They struggle with money because they just don't want to work. And if they do, they are not doing it right because they are lazy or drunk. Even when the sewer runs over, water pours into their home mainly because they left their window open. Everything is self-imposed. It's not like that out there, at least not all the time. I can't agree with this type of depiction, I think it's fundamentally wrong and this narrative is not what we need right now.
And even if you would argue that this movie is about how the capital invades our lifes and dictates our behavior, in what way? Being rich brings out the best of you, being poor the worst? I don't agree with that. Maybe you guys can help me find the true meaning behind this film, but what I got from it is something I so fundamentally disagree with that it prohibits me from fully appreciating this otherwise remarkable movie.
708. Yorum: jesus fucking christ i really didn’t expect this film to get this insane! but what else should i expect from bong joon-ho at this point. goat.
709. Yorum: One of the most perfect films of the decade , maybe even the 21st century. I don't even think it has any flaws, like at all. It broke my heart how ki-woo told ki-jung how she's the only person in their family who looks like they can live in the rich house only for her to be eliminated first. The dad saving the mom's medal during the flood...ommgg💔❤️‍🩹. Dasong was also a genius, it's only that they never focused on him, the painting, the morse code, connecting how the four were related by the same smell. And when ki-woo writes his father a letter about his plans, how he's going to earn money, join university, get a career, marriage and buy the house so that he'll be able to walk up the stairs even after his father warned him about plans...i sure felt that.
710. Yorum: Just watched this again with my band today and Jesus this movie so good. Such an incredibly disarming film that starts so wildly funny but pivots gruesomely fast to fully hit you in the gut with a wild twist and ending. Even on the twelfth time of watching this movie, Parasite hits! The symbolism of upstairs vs downstairs, the wealth gap, and extreme privilege of the upper class in South Korea is so well depicted through the visuals and script. Cannot imagine a movie more worthy of its best picture title.
711. Yorum: you know shit is good when every letter in the title is also in the word "masterpiece"
712. Yorum: Can never see this one enough times. Saw it with the Family and they loved it. Somehow gets better every time I see it and notice something new each time. One of the most unique films I've ever seen.
713. Yorum: Even after eight watches, the peach montage gives me CHILLS!!!
714. Yorum: Academy, you gave this movie the awards it deserves. RESPECT!
715. Yorum: 
716. Yorum: Really Great -> 2019 Ranking (#3/132)
Will probably have to watch it again before I can say it’s the best of the year but man... what a great film! It delivered even with my already sky high expectations. There’s not much I can say that hasn’t already been said, it’s pretty much excellent in every department. It touches on so many themes that it definitely warrants a second watch. So metaphorical.
717. Yorum: I didn’t believe the hype.
Believe the hype.
Woah.
718. Yorum: A personal fuck-you to anyone who completed their “best films of the 2010s” list in the first half of 2019. Bong Joon-Ho really saved the best for last huh ?
719. Yorum: Fuck. That was beyond mesmerizing.
720. Yorum: I have been sick as a dog and found out I’ve got a parasite. So, what else is there to do, other than rewatch the academy award best picture winner ‘Parasite’. And let me tell you this still bangs! Really is a classic
721. Yorum: I wonder what Bong Joon-ho's servants think of this film, or the domestic staff of Milky Lee, the billionaire heiress who funded it (her grandaddy made Samsung)? I'm beginning to think the reason Korean cinema is taking off in the West is because they couldn't get away with this vile trash if they made it here - the servants would most likely be non-white or immigrants, and the media class would have to pretend they were outraged by a film about deranged, cartoon villains who cheat and lie their way into a wealthy family's good graces, leading to manslaughter, among many other crimes.
The only way to charitably view Parasite is to see it as Bong Joon-ho making the most expensive and hyperbolic cry for improved sewage works, because apparently if someone's house floods they turn into a resentful crazed killer in Korea. It could also be the most impassioned deodorant commercial ever made. If the Kim family father had sprayed himself up a bit before going to work as a chauffeur for a rich client, a common courtesy anybody should take before going to work, multiple lives would've been saved.
Watch this remembering the people who produced it are very wealthy and must have had staff to drive them to Oscar parties, and it might kick in how wretchedly cruel and dehumanising this portrayal of the poor is. Apparently, the lower classes are workshy, lazy criminals without a single moral bone in their body. I can imagine the Beverly Hills set watching this as they considered it for the Best Picture in 2020 thinking "I bet that's what my maid is up to right now."
Although the poor family's degenerate ways are mildly amusing at the start, when they're just trying to get free wi-fi, 40 minutes later they will cause another maid (who has a job they want) to suffer an allergic reaction which will send her to the hospital for the day. They do this multiple times.
There was still an hour and a half to go after that and the poor family's conduct didn't get any prettier. Bong Joon-ho, who had worked with big American actors and had a deal with Netflix at this point, spent a year of his life working out in intricate detail how a lower class family could deceive and betray their employers and their existing staff (the existing working-class staff are of course liars and squatters too).
At best I see Parasite as a schlocky horror film made by bigoted rich folks. It thinks by waving its hand at class issues and by having nice cinematography and sets, we won't notice it's a slow paced house invasion film where the "help" are the monsters. I had to tell myself it was a trashy horror film to make it watchable and that the weird rock they're gifted at the start (which is supposed to bring wealth) had demonic powers or something, and that's why immediately after touching it the poor people turn to fraud and outrageous crimes. They only regain their senses after they put the stone back into a river at the end.
And by senses, I mean as sensible as you can be in a film where another crazy poor loon lives underground in the rich people’s house and likes to bang out grovelling messages with his head in morse code. It's so ludicrous. The shark jumped into space for me at that point.
I have never met anybody like this poor family, who are apparently all geniuses deep down but can't even fold pizza boxes. Even the way they all hang out together constantly seems creepy, considering the kids must be in their early 20s. As soon as the family successfully infiltrates the rich people's home by using forged documents, lies and violence, they can barely contain themselves. The dad has to squeeze his wife's butt even though it could get them caught, the young man who pretends to be an English tutor starts flirting with the underage daughter, and it’s presumed he's having sex with her by the end because poor people are paedophilic it seems, the poor family's daughter acts as some kind of art therapist and claims the rich son has schizophrenia, ruining his life, and the poor mum isn't opposed to kung fu kicking another old lady down stairs, mortally wounding her in order to keep a job. What am I supposed to be getting out of this revolting portrayal exactly?
It's fun reading gushing reviews of this in upper middle class newspapers where they're clearly having a great time watching this slick horror film, where the poor - whom presumably they are terrified of in real life - are a "parasite" sponging off the rich, but before the articles finish they suddenly realise their mask is slipping and desperately try to make it out like the rich family are just as bad if not worse than these thieving, lying sociopaths.
The writer/director Bong Joon-ho had the same problem:
"He had to convince the film's marketing group to use [the title of Parasite]. Bong said "Because the story is about the poor family infiltrating and creeping into the rich house, it seems very obvious that Parasite refers to the poor family, and I think that's why the marketing team was a little hesitant. But if you look at it the other way, you can say that rich family, they're also parasites in terms of labor. They can't even wash dishes, they can't drive themselves."
Is that it? Is that the best you've got?
If I don't burst into the kitchen after a restaurant meal I've paid for and offer to do the dishes myself, am I a parasite too? Apparently giving servants excellent wages to do a job for them – here a single person pays comfortable salaries for 4 people who need money - makes one as evil as killers and fraudsters?
It’s utterly insincere to claim this is balanced. The rich family are perfectly hospitable and beneficial, and mainstream critics are desperately trying to cover their hatred of the poor with this hokum that "they're both as bad as each other."
According to mainstream reviews the worst thing this rich family does is complain, in private, behind closed doors in their own home, that the deceiving, lecherous creeps who have cheated their way into their house (not that they know) have an unpleasant damp odour because the family lives in a damp, basement apartment, hence my deodorant comment. I couldn't get my head around this. If I had a chauffeur who stinks I might casually comment on it with my wife at home, especially if I was paying the person top wages (the cheating family pass themselves off as elite staff). Is this Bong Joon-ho's fear of leaving a bad Uber review?
Anyway, this "horrible" comment about body odour by the rich father seemingly makes him a capitalist pig dog even though he keeps it to himself and never lets the chauffeur know out of unnecessary politeness. Even if he had, saying "dude, don't take this personally, but could you put on some aftershave in the morning?" shouldn’t justify a Communist revolution. And note smelly dad only hears this because he's snuck into the house and is stealing all their expensive alcohol at the time.
And why does stealing-dad live in a crappy damp apartment and smell in the first place? It's because out of a family of 4 fit and healthy and intelligent people nobody wants to work, and secondly even though they do get a ton of money from cheating the rich family, more than enough money to move a few rungs up, they don't seem to spend their fraudulent income and move. Is it all going on drugs or something? After working there for weeks or months (it's hard to tell) they still won't even pay for phone data! It's so deranged. Not only are the poor criminals, apparently they're too dumb to even use money if you give it to them, at least according to Boon Joon-ho. This is very revealing about the true attitude of revolutionaries.
It all builds up to the stupidest finale of any Oscar winning movie I can remember, where the evil poor family are called in to work overtime for a party (which really annoys them even though they're getting paid extra and their job has huge perks like paid time off when the rich folks are on holiday), and through some of the most contrived and bad characterisation ever, the other loony dude in the basement who has magically broken free of his bonds, but did nothing to save the life of his own loopy wife, goes on a kill frenzy because poor folks are crazy. Poor smelly dad gets even more mad because he was told not to be too familiar with his boss and just do what he's getting paid for, and then after the massacre occurs and wounded and dead rich people are in bits everywhere comes a piece of writing that gets you the Palme d'Or and Oscar for Best Original Screenplay: the rich dad needs the car keys to get his unconscious son out of the kill zone and bends down to pick them off the floor and then pauses, in all this panic and commotion, and holds his nose because he can't just stomach poor people pong even in a life or death situation. I wanted to chuck the remote at the screen. It's such stupid thing to hang the whole movie on. After this nose-holding, poor dad snaps because he's so incredibly sensitive about his body odour (the downfall of any criminal) that he lets a teenage girl bleed to death to stab rich dad to death in front of his little son. South Korea is messed up man if this is their version of Downton Abbey. I was surprised Freddie and Jason didn't burst in with chainsaws, this bloodbath was so farcical.
Alas, it's not over. The film tacks on a 20-minute epilogue which a child might write. The poor evil family are arrested but let go without any sentence (which could've only happened if they'd lied through their teeth to the cops) and bizarrely poor murderer dad hides out in the secret basement of the rich house because I don't know, emotions. Now he's going to stay there, for year after year, stealing food off whoever lives there, spending his days sending out morse code signals just in case one day his son just happens to be standing on a frozen mountain overlooking the house after dark and realises a flickering lightbulb is a secret message. After this of course happens, his son (who isn't bothered that killer smelly dad abandoned his mother) invents the great idea to report his murderous dad to the authorities or maybe just sneak into the house and see his father… No actually, he decides to get mega rich so he can buy the big house and one day maybe his bloodthirsty, cheating, smelly criminal father will have enough brainpower to come out of the basement and hug him. The end. Nothing in this film makes any sense.
At least I am so relieved I left university before this came out because judging by what I've read the bored Marxists who teach humanities and like to drop "late stage capitalism" at dinner parties are all wetting themselves over this and are no doubt going to be forcing it on students in order to magically convince us, after 100 years, that abandoning capitalism (which paid for this movie and their comfortable life) is going to improve our standard of living, even though the film is just a dopey Korean horror film for prejudiced rich folks. Essays are going to have to be written about how this film relates to "wealth disparity" or socio-economic blah blah even though it's overwhelmingly in favour of the rich, being made by them, and it treats the poor like scum. Apparently if you make disgusting stereotype stories about people you're phobic about, critics and professors will think it's in favour of those who are being denigrated.
I've been staff and had staff, and in my experience rich folks are very respectful to their servants because finding good ones is difficult and as a good servant you soon learn you're working in a family home, their sanctuary, and never forget it's a job not a vacation which is how it should be. I never once felt any envy towards people I worked for and to be honest, a lot of rich people's lives seem stressed and chaotic so I was glad to return to my poorer life. Also a lot of low paid staff take a great deal of pride in their work and don’t see cleaning or tutoring to be "inferior" but important, as it is. And if rich folks want to create jobs, pay people fairly, and show respect to their staff, bring on the rich. The more they pay you the worse the job in my experience.
But this kind of finesse to the situation or looking at both sides isn't on the table here. Parasite is just a prejudiced billionaire's vanity project based on "what if my stupid servants were evil?" and if it had been made in the West with different skin colours it would've been banned. I hope Bong Joon-ho finds it very hard to get staff after this farce.
722. Yorum: It’s a miracle I avoided ALL spoilers for this for the best part of 2 years and managed to go in COMPLETELY blind! And thank god... what a picture!
723. Yorum: Seoul Hustler
"I find these Asian shock horror movies monotonous." - my mom's weird boyfriend who slept through most of the movie.
724. Yorum: My friends (who don’t like foreign films) were flat out SCREAMING the entire second half so I’ll count that as a win.
725. Yorum: The spaces we occupy. The artful ones where the light and warmth streams in. The lower ones, where the shit water flows. What those of us below won’t do to get above. What those of us above cannot comprehend is below. “So metaphorical.”
On the nose, but every single scene claps and the whole thing is ratcheted tight as fuck.
726. Yorum: "Gente que anda de metrô tem um cheiro diferente."
Parasita continua tão bom quanto me lembrava. A forma como Bong Joon-ho usa da arquitetura no filme, especialmente na maneira de traçar linhas e espaços, maximizando a ideia de estratificação social, é muito interessante.
Eis um exemplo de um filme cuja crítica social é obvia e evidente em todas as suas alegorias (o porão como algo inferior, as escadas como ideia de ascensão social etc), até o título ("Parasita" não poderia ser mais direto kk), mas não é ruim, muito menos fraco em sua ideia. Até mesmo os diálogos expositivos que existem no filme não perdem seu impacto. Vide anos depois ainda há quem lembre da cena do carro.
É um filme que entende bem os códigos norte-americanos (como boa parte do cinema sul-coreano atual), e faz algo de interessante com isso. Entendo que seja bem palatável pro ocidente e que em que pese ser um ótimo filme, existam filmes muito melhores no país de origem, mas continua excelente. 
Não acho o melhor do Joon-ho pois tenho amor demais "Memórias de Um Assassino", mas tá bem perto. Vai render um papo interessante no Clube amanhã.
727. Yorum: ok but i’d be petty if someone gave me the job of tutoring their crush because then they “wouldn’t have to worry”… like fym???
728. Yorum: 
729. Yorum: Homes that's just an average birthday party at the Christensen house 🙄🙄
Yeah I'm not sleeping after that one.
730. Yorum: The last 10 minutes of this film might be the best I’ve ever seen. Chills.
731. Yorum: DuBFaL-Asia-Weeks auf LB - 1st Round - Film-Nr. 6 - Parasite
Asia-Wochen ohne Parasite, das kann und darf nicht sein. 4fach oscarprämiert, von den Kritikern hochgelobt, aber von mir bislang noch nicht gesichtet. Diese Lücke habe ich nun geschlossen und nicht bereut 😜.
Ja Parasite ist kein gewöhnlicher Film. In Parasite sind viele Genres vertreten. Deshalb ist es natürlich schwer, den Film auch nur einem Genre zuzuordnen.
Als rabenschwarze Komödie unterhält Parasite die erste Hälfte unheimlich gut. Die Charaktere sind allesamt sympathisch, teilweise bißchen crazy, aber im positiven Sinne. Der gut dosierte etwas düstere Humor in diesem Part gefällt mir sehr gut. Musste zwar nicht laut lachen, hatte aber trotzdem ein Dauergrinsen im Gesicht 😁. Mit welcher Dreistigkeit die Familie Kim sich bei den Parks einnistet und breit macht war einfach erfrischend anzusehen.
Aber dabei bleibt es ja nicht. Urplötzlich entwickelt sich die ich sag jetzt trotzdem mal Komödie zu einem Thriller und dann geht auf einmal höllisch zur Sache. Blut fließt en masse fast schon tarantinolike 😁. Meine ersten Gedanken waren Was geht denn hier jetzt ab, aber letztendlich hat es dann doch irgendwie gepasst. Also der Film ist weit entfernt davon als 08/15-Film wahrgenommen zu werden. So nach dem Motto Alles schon mal dagewesen. Nein, nein. Völlig neue Idee, originell umgesetzt - allein dafür ist schon ein Oscar gerechtfertigt - und im weiteren stets für eine Überraschung gut. Abschließend würde ich Parasite am ehesten als Tragikkomödie bezeichnen.
Zur Handlung will ich gar nicht viel mehr verraten. Anschauen und sich anschließend die Augen reiben 😉
Andy's-Asiafilme-Ranking
732. Yorum: remember when tr*mp watched this but shit on it because he had to read subtitles
733. Yorum: In Parasite moltissime scene sono caratterizzate dalla presenza di scale che salgono e scendono: da quelle della splendida villa della ricca famiglia Park, alle scalinate incredibilmente lunghe che circondano la città di Seul, e che conducono fino al quartiere squallido e maleodorante in cui vivono i sottoproletari Kim. Il film di Bong Joon-ho è la storia di una contrapposizione sociale e delle difficoltà che le persone appartenenti alle classi inferiori devono affrontare per cercare di migliorare la loro condizione. Spesso, infatti, coloro che si trovano in fondo alla "scala" provano disperatamente a risalire i gradini della società, così da riscattare la miseria della loro situazione d’origine. Tuttavia, chi dispone di grandi ricchezze e di una posizione sociale elevata tende a trascurare la realtà delle fasce più deboli della popolazione e tale noncuranza ha un costo. Il regista sudcoreano intreccia questi temi in un'introduzione ironica e grottesca, che successivamente, però, lascia spazio a toni più drammatici ed inquietanti. Il cambiamento di registro è spiazzante, ma inserito in modo naturalissimo nel racconto, grazie ad una scrittura ed una direzione magistrali, e alle perfette interpretazioni di un cast corale.
Here's the english version of the review.
734. Yorum: "They are nice because they are rich."
Pros:
- This is a movie that I feel should be seen going in blind and one everybody needs to see. Korean cinema really works on a whole other level that no other country can reach. So while no spoilers, I still suggest to see it for yourself first.
- I feel that this movie is what Jordan Peele wanted to get across in Us but got lost a bit in the metaphor. I think movies that shine a light on human nature needs to be a bit abstract. The sugar with the spoonful of medicine. I love how Bong Joon Ho can seamlessly move from one genre to another without missing a beat or sacrificing the charm or theme. This goes from heartfelt and slice of life to dark and uncomfortable without effort. And it's mostly because of the characters.
- You have a poor family of 4 grifters who are fairly smart and resourceful. The slowly get entangled in a rich family of 4's home. No one is the bad guy and no one is the good guy. The con is relatively harmless to the rich family. They do the tasks they are supposed to do and genuinely want to be accepted and liked. But one of the core themes is needing to step on someone else's head to rise. So complications arise when they are face to face with that. The rich family is nice but they have their cracks as well.
- This looks amazing and how the camerawork helps tell the story is wonderful. Even though the 2 families live in the same city, the distance feels worlds apart. How it uses geography to establish the hierarchy where the poor family lives in a basement facing an alley that is constantly being assaulted by hobo urine. And they have to make their way up a steep incline to eventually reach the house. And I really liked the house. It had an interesting style.
- Song Kang-Ho really is one of the best actors working today. He is so versatile and the way he owns a role is phenomenal.
Cons:
- The only flaw I have is that I would have liked to have gotten the aftermath for both families.
9.5 out of 10 peaches
735. Yorum: Cuando hace unos meses vi Parasite, una página de La imagen-movimiento me vino vagamente a la memoria. Y sí, la aparente coincidencia entre lo que pasa en la película y lo que describe Deleuze como una de las modulaciones de la imagen-pulsión es llamativa. Salvo que Bong hiciera alguna declaración, no puede saberse, y tampoco importa demasiado, si Buñuel, Viridiana y aun esa página influyeron en la imaginación de Parasite. La asociación con Viridiana, por otra parte, apareció, además, en varias críticas o comentarios sobre la película de Bong. Sin embargo, más que las similitudes entre Viridiana y Parasite, que me parecen solo superficiales, querría conversar sobre sus diferencias. Tengo la esperanza de que eso va a ayudar a explicarme por qué mientras una me parece una película extraordinaria, la otra apenas sostuvo mi atención. Otros desacuerdos con Parasite, otras objeciones, me resultan claros, pero el disgusto y sus causas son siempre más difusos.
“La película -dice Bong- trata la cuestión de la desigualdad del ingreso, pero también es un thriller policial y una comedia negra, una película de género (en la que, por lo tanto, es posible encontrar) mucha diversión cinematográfica”. Empiezo por estas declaraciones porque tengo para mí que en el “pero” que Bong pone entre la película que habla del mundo y la película que divierte está cifrado el disgusto por el que venía preguntándome. Un “pero” incómodo y, sin embargo, elocuente ya que, en efecto, en Parasite, se siente la tensión entre el deber de la denuncia y el placer del cine.
Bong asegura que “la tarea de un director es tratar de reflejar el tiempo en que vive” y a tal punto cree que el éxito de ese reflejo es importante que cambió la estructura de Parasite para que el público pudiera entenderla mejor (sic). Lo que resulta de esta (inútil) dicotomía entre el deber de reflejar y una cierta idea de cine es una obra que no confía del todo en la potencia y, tal vez, ni siquiera en la capacidad de darse sus propias reglas en el mundo que ha creado.
En Viridiana, entre el ocio y la perversión pasiva del padre y la productividad sexualmente activa del hijo, se podría decir de ella, de Viridiana, que encarna, muy paradójicamente, el tercio abstracto y espiritual de su mundo. Pero en realidad lo que más hace es introducir en él otra cosa, distinta y sin embargo tampoco equiparable a ninguna de las anteriores. Los pobres de Viridiana, llevados por ella a la casa -que no son, por otra parte, exactamente pobres, sino marginales, habitantes de un mundo de desechos- no refieren de modo mecánico a ningún sujeto real, empírico, del mundo exterior a la película, por muchas similitudes que haya. Son criaturas de su propio mundo, lanzadas a la escena no para ejemplificar la brutalidad de la lucha de clases, ni la miseria a la que la inmoralidad del sistema los condena, sino para abrir la vía de una completa dislocación de ese sistema, solo posible, quizá, en ese mundo de la película. No tienen otro propósito más que el de llevar las cosas hasta su total agotamiento en términos narrativos, formales y aun políticos, si se quiere. La cuasicomunidad de marginales de Viridiana se entrega al puro gasto. No hay de su parte ninguna voluntad de apropiación de lo que tienen los ricos, ninguna voluntad de sustituirlos en sus posiciones. En rigor, no hay voluntad siquiera, lo que los mueve es un impulso más ciego. Consumen todo lo que pueden, burlan los fetiches de esa pequeña y ya desvaída aristocracia, destruyen y se van, sin ninguna preocupación futura por el orden de las cosas que vinieron a trastrocar y sin comunicarnos tampoco ninguna inquietud por su propio futuro porque el mundo en que han vivido es el mundo creado por Buñuel, que no se confunde nunca con el mundo real, y cuyas mutuas relaciones, bastante menos evidentes, en todo caso, queda a nuestro cargo hacer o encontrar.
Parasite, en cambio, carga con el peso de ese “pero”, de esa conexión adversativa a la que se obliga entre el mundo de la película y el de la vida real. Sus personajes tampoco, e incluso menos que en Viridiana, son representaciones realistas de personas que podamos encontrar en las calles de Seúl, pero tienen la obligación de fungir de ellos, de reflejarlos. Si en Viridiana había puro derroche y agotamiento, en Parasite, estos personajes son dotados de un programa que, por otra parte, no persigue nada distinto que, a lo sumo, una sustitución de los elencos, sin que nada cambie – los pobres aspiran a ocupar el lugar de los ricos, o a acoplarse adecuadamente al medio de ellos. Esto es profusamente ilustrado y subrayado, al punto en que el joven Kim Ki-woo le pregunta angustiado a la hija -con la que ha establecido una especie de relación amorosa- de los dueños de la casa en la que él y su familia se han ido infiltrando como sirvientes si ella cree que él puede encajar en ese mundo de privilegios.
Sobre la cuestión de la representación de los pobres en Parasite y de la indulgencia a su carácter agresivo y aun malicioso, en virtud de que este sería el resultado inescapable de un estado de las cosas –pero también acerca de que, si esos rasgos son justificados, en cambio, lo que no se cuestiona nunca es el estereotipo del mundo de la pobreza– se han alzado ya algunas voces. Notoriamente, la de César González, en las redes. También, en un desarrollo algo más extenso de la cuestión, la de Jorge Loser, en el sitio Espinof.
Buñuel no necesita ser indulgente con los pobres, no está interesado en eso, ni en justificar su comportamiento voraz porque no necesita tampoco explicar ni justificar, como si de términos correspondientes en una alegoría se tratara, el mundo de la película con el mundo real. Sabe que hay en el mundo de la película y en las lecturas que se hagan de ella algo que excede incluso a su hipotética voluntad autoral. Y al mismo tiempo confía en su apuesta y se desentiende conspicuamente de lo que no puede controlar (o hace como si se desentendiera, al menos).
En una película donde la puesta en escena, su proyecto formal, quiere ser tan dominante como en Parasite, la falta de confianza en el poder sugestivo de las imágenes que esa puesta entrega, o podría entregar, acaba por debilitar su potencia. Y, con todos los medios a su disposición y unas actuaciones notables, la condena a una resolución pobre, tristemente moralizante y escasamente imaginativa.
Entre las razones de su éxito en Hollywood -para no especular con las que, sin duda, obedecen a las relaciones puramente mercantiles con una de las naciones más domesticadas del planeta, y además de sus innegables virtudes técnicas y artísticas que a ninguna mujer ni hombre de la industria podrían pasarles inadvertidas- se cuenta que Parasite está colocada en el límite aceptable de la comprensión y de la imaginación crítica del mundo, para un establishment que, en esta coyuntura histórica y política, busca desesperada, casi conmovedoramente, ser crítico.



Otra versión, acá.
736. Yorum: Fest hyperbole seems to already be at such a level that I feel like I can’t be honest about my response to this movie.
www.rogerebert.com/reviews/parasite-movie-review-2019
737. Yorum: "[...] Bong’s socioeconomic themes—also present in Lee’s Burning, another tale of class warfare, as well as the countless Korean shows and films pitting the haves against the have-nots—can feel like a specifically Korean cinematic interest. That can be credited to South Korea’s uniquely rapid economic boom, which largely happened under the military dictatorship of President Park Chung-hee, who aggressively prioritized economic growth over civil liberties. “I turned 50 this year and during the past half-century, I watched Korea develop into a pretty rich nation,” Bong said. “But, like Germany and first-world nations of Europe, the richer the country gets, the more the relative gap between the rich and the poor becomes wider. And so you get this polarization. And I think Korea is the same.”
In Parasite, that gap pervades every aspect of the two families’ lives—in smell (an important part of the film) and in the literal climate. When a torrential storm hits, the Kims’ abode is almost devastated, while the heavy downpour becomes a fun excuse for the Parks’ young son to camp out in a tent in the front yard. It’s both fascinating and sickening to watch [...]"
Read the rest of my Bong Joon-ho profile over at The Ringer.
738. Yorum: I’ve been watching a bunch of silly shit recently soI decided to watch this Oscar winning movie, so I don’t get sucked in😭.
Still considered of the best movies of all time in my book. This movie is incredible from start to finish. One of the few movies I’ll actually continue to overhype. This was beautifully filmed, every frame shot was beautiful, and the dialogue spectacular. 
This was a well depicted lesson on greed from different worlds. It really presents a meticulously structured script and uses a powerful metaphor to describe the tensions of a divided society. The social criticism of the film is well defined, especially when you finally understand the “bad smell” talk and the “divider line”. 
This also had some comedic moments in this movie, which I enjoyed. Not a moment of screen time was wasted during this movie and I loved every second of it. This movie is definitely recommended especially if you are starting to just into movies, also if you liked Oldboy, and Shoplifters. 10/10 movie.
739. Yorum: letterboxd is a massively-multiplayer online strategy game where you, your friends, and a bunch of really annoying people seek to apply labels (one, from a selection of ten) to rows in a database. each row is associated with an object from the set that roughly corresponds to "movies" (already a kind of hazy term, further confused on letterboxd by having some miniseries, web animations, promotional videos, but not really individual commercials most of the time, or tv shows)
now the catch is that these labels represent discrete numerical values along a 1-dimensional continuum. unlike some of my friends, i do think you could theoretically create quantitative representations of films such that some bureaucratic egregore could then categorize them in a generally non-odious way, but that would require some sort of vector value, aggregating assessments along an arbitrary number of axes. so the game is, knowing the great loss of information that comes with projecting these hypothetical n-dimensional quantitative assessments into 1-dimensional point values, how do you do it?
part of the fun of the game is that when you do this you get to write little messages either justifying your actions or just writing something stupid, or something insanely obnoxious like this
parasite (2019) is a movie that kinda disgusts me. it's admittedly entertaining, but in the same way that bo burnham specials feel like a liberal capitalist evaluation of "does watching a cute 'woke' (derogatory) guy having a mental breakdown generate views", this is "does emptying a big bucket with POLITICS written on the side onto your thriller movie get views?". the real horror is that it's basically impossible to evaluate whether or not bo burnham or bong joon ho is trying to do a "genuine" conveyance. hell, maybe "genuine" means something different when you're a real hot shot like those two! but it seems dull even to me to try to play armchair psychologist on these guys
the fact that letterboxd has a "top 250 movies" list generated from aggregated ratings situates the 5.0 as "most valuable" and 0.5 as "least valuable", in some sense, so there /are/ stakes involved. you select some guys and root for them to win the race. we can deduce people that letterboxd seems to attract can be assumed to be, generally, people that want parasite (2019) to win this race
in doing the sort of vector -> scalar projection we're talking about, people seem to kinda fall into two camps, the "Lil' Structuralist" who is assessing formal properties (and sometimes cultural context/importance) against some secret mercurial rubric that converts this analysis into Value, and the "Fun Haver" who claims to be able to reduce their emotional response (itself a very complicated value) into that scalar value. you know how it's kind of funny to see a review that is a series of more-or-less objective statements about some film in question, but then decides that that means the movie is bad when those are the reasons you like the movie? you can see how it breaks down
parasite (2019) presents some bits of information that a viewer could link to why the family is poor, but because they are repeatedly contradicted in the movie, it doesn't feel quite right. the son can't get into school, but even if he did, college graduates can't find jobs. except his college graduate friend who has a job, etc etc. since the family is repeatedly shown to be smart / charismatic / competent / ambitious, the conclusion is that they are Just Randomly Poor, though i think it would be not-invalid to read into it that poorness is somehow bioessential, with the connection to eg odor and the nature of rich people. by the end of the movie, everyone wronged by the entire ideal sort of shrugs and accepts this all as Just The Way It Is, I Guess, hoping that one day they themselves will get to be the rich players at the game.
which is to say, this isn't really a critique of anything, or even an analysis of anything, so much as it is a naked assertion of a liberal status quo that is then used to construct a thriller movie. this is what i meant when i called it "class warfare as spectacle" in my previous review.
it's pretty, it has clearly talented actors, it's paced well enough to be thrilling, but do you, like, care? martyrs also had that but i liked it more, "dangerous encounters of the first kind" was also thrilling and much more willing to actually take something resembling a stance. look! there's like 2 million good movies out there, do you /need/ parasite (2019)?? i understand how watching this is fun and an entertaining way to send 2 hours but like, the best movie of all time?? are you sure?? if the idea is that this represents a specifically korean form of filmmaking or cultural analysis, i would concede that but that's out of my league and dude /surely/ there are korean people saying shit far more interesting than this...
if letterboxd offers you anything above just watching movies and contemplating them alone, it certainly isn't tailored recommendations or new friendships, but it is getting this crude look at What The Sort Of People Who Use Letterboxd Think About Something, Generally. might as well use it! why not? it feels safe to deduce from the fact that it's the #1 movie on the site that whatever is happening here /works/ for people. like, super well. it feels like parasite (2019) correctly identified this major sales opportunity that eg squid game was able to use to catapult itself to being the #1 Most Worshipped Thing, except that squid game offered a lot more actual critique. in hindsight, it was safe to be a little more aggressive with the politics. ah well.
anyway, i bumped my rating down to 0.5 because ratings are stupid and i wanted to take this opportunity to help shove parasite (2019) off of being the #1 movie of all time. like, at least if it was Joker that'd be kinda funny. as it stands it just feels like this embarrassing, extremely 2021 way of signalling Yes, I Care About Politics! Parasite (2019) Is 10/10! without having to actually engage in things like analysis or self-reflection. plus it's cool!! a moment of catharsis! a+
edit: i was getting 'top movies' and 'most popular movies' confused, which means that parasite (2019) at #1 isn't fighting against Joker, it's fighting against fucking Come and See. technically, this /does/ make the fact that parasite (2019) is the top movie hilarious, but in a way where you can see a tic in my eye and beads of sweat on my forehead
740. Yorum: "Once you overcome the one-inch-tall barrier of subtitles, you'll be introduced to so many more amazing films." - Bong Joon-ho
This movie is fantastic and perhaps one of the best films of the past decade. Boon Joon-Ho successfully creates a full twist of genre halfway through the movie. Parasite is a great comedy for the first half of the film, and an even better crime/thriller for the second half of the movie. This movie is also an intelligent commentary on class and money. The different aspects of showing what each family stands for and what they prioritize is fascinating. Joon-Ho keeps the momentum going so well during this film, which makes the pacing perfect. The plot and story are so engaging you'll never want to take your eyes off the screen. All the performances were spot on, and the cinematography was stunning.
I had two favorite scenes from this film. The Belt of Faith (peach fuzz montage) montage was executed so flawlessly. The scene included the final plan of the family taking over the Park family by eliminating the current staff. The music playing during the montage is the cherry on top as it fits in so well. Da-Song's impromptu birthday party is my other favorite scene from the film. The killing frenzy caught me entirely off guard. That scene was both chilling and insane. However, while I felt the need to feel bad for the Park family, I didn't. Movies like Parasite will make you feel all sorts of emotions and will leave you thinking about it for a long time.
Something I picked up on while rewatching was the symbolism of the stone that was given to Kevin by Min. He holds onto the stone because he claims that it clings to him. And in the end, the stone is what nearly kills him. Many details can be observed when rewatching the film. Boon Joon-Ho deserved all the awards that were presented to him for this film. Parasite is an excellent film that everyone should watch at least once in their life. Parasite's conclusion is what started as a comedy of manners and transforms into a furious growl of rage as one of the most arresting social satires yet.
741. Yorum: 
742. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan that never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned."
'Parasite' is absolutely fantastic. I'm still buzzing how good this movie is. Unpredictable and nuts. You know, this summer I was starting to get a little worn out with the endless sequels, remakes and soulless crash grabs, so I find it refreshing we get movies like this once awhile.
I admire Bong Joon-Ho as a director, especially his Korean movies. Not to say I dislike his English language films like 'Snowpiercer' and 'Okja', but in my personal opinion those don't match the same quality as his Korean movies and there isn't a sex pest trying to control his work. Anywhere, Bong Joon-Ho is one of the best working directors alive and 'Parasite' proves it.
The movie perfectly blends drama and comedy so effortlessly, it basically breaks the impossible. And the comedy is actually hilarious and well written with the execution being sold on the actors. The thing I love so much is how funny, thrilling and intense the movie can be, hijacking all senses and emotions all wrapped into one - only a few directors can pull something this unique.
The performances from everyone was brilliant and there's so much depth to each character, they make the movie as captivating as it is. The cinematography was beautiful, the music was remarkable, and the movie says so much it's the reason why I was engaged throughout.
I highly recommend people to avoid knowing anything before going in, because trust me it will add to your experience.
Overall rating: Finally, a breath of fresh air. My second favorite movie of this year.
743. Yorum: Saw this on a first date... true cinephile. Don’t even know where to start with the compliments but I will say that this is far and away the best film of the year and consists of perhaps one of the best written climaxes ever put to film. It’s Bong Joon-ho in total command of his craft and it’s excellent to watch.
744. Yorum: this movie never fails to amaze me
#JUSTICEFORJESSICA
745. Yorum: pizza delivery girl deserved more screentime
746. Yorum: Even better the second time. The only thing, that bothered me the first time I saw it (when the daughter is about to look under the bed) is just cliché in the german-dubbed version.
747. Yorum: i can see why this move sweeped the oscars. fucking brilliant, edge of your seat type of thriller. loved every second of it.
748. Yorum: That beautiful glass window alone should win an award.
This movie is one that grabs you and holds your attention to the end. There was not a wasted scene or frame.
The way it unfolds and explores the intricacies of class systems was genius.
There is a lot unravel. How we treat others, how we treat ourselves, and how far we will go to get what we want were theme that were explored.
Things and ideas like Morse code and deception were cleverly and smoothly worked into the plot.
I loved how the different levels of the house were used and could be analogous of class systems.
The rain and flooding in this film was a great tool to represent inequality and was heartbreaking. The buildup and subsequent reveals were well earned too.
The direction was stellar and the acting was exactly what the tone needed and required. I honestly felt empathy for each character for a variety of reasons and that can hard to pull off.
Brilliant is an accurate assessment and the praise and and adulation it is receiving is well deserved.
Parasite is a perfect title.
Peace and be grateful as it truly could be worse.
Damn that was good movie.
-----‐----------
Bonus Note-
I live in a small East Texas town called Kilgore and our Movie Theater does try to go out of their way at time to go above and beyond. This week they brought in special showings for Parasite and Jojo Rabbit and it was sweet seeing them back to back in their new recliner seats.
749. Yorum: parents liked it! quelle surprise
750. Yorum: “Money is an iron.”
751. Yorum: I can’t wait to show this movie to all of my friends and family and my classmates and my mailman and my pizza delivery guy and to Jessica from Illinois and to my future children and future grandchildren and all of their friends.  If you know me IRL, expect for me to make you watch this movie at some point.
752. Yorum: I dare to say that koreans make the most originals movies in the world. Such an achievement technical and scriptwise. Bong Joon-ho is probably one of the best directors working today as he shows in every movie he makes.
Also a fascinating study in class disparity that is relevant in every single corner in the world.
753. Yorum: SPEECHLESS!!!!!!!!
754. Yorum: 
755. Yorum: This is just as smart and entertaining as everyone’s been hyping it up to be. I’m fucking floored!
756. Yorum: Here's to not being inevitably crushed by your own metaphorical rock 🍻
757. Yorum: As PARASITE chugs along, it drifts through relationship and situational comedy and then through crime thriller tropes as if that was what the film was for. What makes PARASITE work so well is that these genre elements, which drive many films along on their own, are mere cinematic furnishings in Bong Joon Ho's mini epic. As engaging as so many of the scenes are, PARASITE is committed to much more than amusement and genre filmmaking. It is an essay on South Korea class society and how they feed off one another.
The summary of the plot sounds like a British comedy--family members fraudulently get themselves employed by a wealthy family. Each has a different household role that he or she is not particularly qualified for. The script cleverly sets up inherently amusing scenarios in a way that also inherently shocks and creates suspense. After all, if the wealthy family ever figured out its staff's ruse, all manner of drama would unfold. And then, brilliantly and out of left field, halfway through the film, Bong Joon Ho has a massive plot device surface which shifts the film's entire momentum. I'll not get into it, but it ups the stakes of the drama tremendously.
Bong's other films also hit on societal themes, but SNOWPIERCER, THE HOST, and OKJA all rely on his savvy with incorporating special effects into live-action drama. And although those films incorporate the effects nicely, PARASITE is so much richer in a world without them.
Bong's script has richly created societies defined by class--relativity to the poverty line. Basements, hills, stairs, half-basements, ramps regularly define the ascent and descent of its characters. Both worlds are familiar yet foreign to most viewers, I'm sure. It is easy at times to empathize with both the haves and the have-nots, but at other times difficult.
A massive rainstorm illustrates the great disparity between the rich and poor. For the wealthy, the rainfall represents the slightest of first-world problems--a cancelled camping trip. However, in the same community, at the bottom of the hill, the same rainstorm causes flooded home, wrecked property, and evacuations. It's a bold contrast in how society co-exists.
Although it seems clear who the parasitic leeches are, it really isn't. Bong's South Korean elites feed off the working class just as much as the working class feeds off the rich. Following the rainstorm, it is the wealthy who need leech onto the working class, whom they need to pull off a superficial tasks of a child's birthday party.
I can't think of a film that so subtly and powerfully portrays systemic prejudice. The characters' roles in society are bigger and more important than their individual roles in the film. All characters' dreams, actions, secrets, and even their body odor speak to their lot in life within Bong's greater social fabric.
A-
758. Yorum: One of the best of 2019, Parasite is even better upon rewatch! 
★★★★★ 
We’ve see more films this year than any other and our proud to share our 10 favorites of 2019,

YEAR IN REVIEW video is out now: HERE 
Thanks to everyone who followed us and we hope everyone has a wonderful new year! Let us know your favorite films of 2019 down below! 
—CINEPHILEs
759. Yorum: Just as the Kims attach themselves to the Parks, Parasite latches on to you and takes advantages of your ignorance of its transformative nature it has in store by gripping you for the first section of its runtime with an original premise which creates room for elaborate dark humour and suspense. Bong Joon-ho utilizes the normal world of both families and defines them so impeccably as the movie ever so often falls back on the characteristics of each individual at a later, more crucial point in time to draw the story towards an unforeseen direction. The immaculate cinematography captures the scenery of the two drastically contrasting households as the Kim family gradually infests their counterpart, benefiting from their gullibility as their living standards start to increase. The process of the parasite slowly acquiring and taking away resources from his host is figuratively presented in a grounded, credible way and realized with a pacing that keeps Parasite brisk.
It juggles with your expectations, though exceeds them in ways you would never imagine, particularly after the midpoint which relinquishes the prior premise, the humorous tone and morphs into an intense, unsettling thriller. With this unexpected tonal shift, the parasite itself is altering. Each member of the Kim family is changed internally by certain events, both shaping their character and leading right into an explosive Third Act ala Tarantino. The massacre however originates from subtly planted seeds, resulting in an emotionally, gruesome Climax.
Parasite is unlike everything else I have yet seen.
( 2019 | Bong Joon-ho )
760. Yorum: So many twists and turns i could barely keep up
761. Yorum: As someone who doesn’t watch a ton of foreign movies, It was hard for me to push myself to watch it. It had a shit ton of hype and i finally came around to watching it and man, this movie is insane. It has some of the best cinematography of 2019 and some outstanding performances from its amazing cast. 
I never expected to like this movie as much as i did and i’m mad at myself for not watching it sooner. 
i’d definitely recommend this movie to anyone. As for top 2019 movies, this is definitely in the top 5. 
Also, jesus the last half hour of this movie was insane. 
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
762. Yorum: The most overrated movie I've seen in a long time. Had I run into it without its attendant hype, "Parasite" would've offered nice surprises. But it comes with the baggage of winning the Palm D'Or--I misspell it on purpose because I'm a poor hick, not a rich bastard like the people who attend that festival--and the Oscar nomination for Best Picture of 2020. The expectations are too high.
Best Picture?!? This is a plot that supplies itself with whatever it needs to. When hidden characters must reveal themselves, they make noise at the right moment. When characters need to come home unexpectedly in order to unknowingly surprise other characters who think they will be gone longer, they come home early.
When a character comments on an unpleasant stinkbug, he himself will become a metaphor for a stinkbug.
The rich in this movie occupy the upstairs. The poor occupy the downstairs. I believe I saw that a lot, in "Downton Abbey," for example. And in just about every other piece of English film and literature for the last, I don't know, 500 years! Maybe this trope is new to Korea, and if so, I will excuse "Parasite" from using it.
It's also hard for me to get beyond the fact that this movie stereotypes everybody, and reductively. The poorer characters are clever schemers who use their brains only to commit crimes. The richer characters are oblivious idiots who say offensive things unwittingly, because they are oblivious.
Mix these two types of characters together, and you get a predictable plot, especially after the revelation in the middle of the movie about what secret lies within the house.
The movie says a lot about plans and not having plans. But it doesn't say anything about stealing the plans of other screenwriters, like this movie does. (If only Preston Sturges could rewrite and shoot this movie.)
This movie also contains the longest, and thus the most ridiculously impractical, Morse Code message ever sent in the history of movies.
I could keep going. On the positive end, the director's compositions are mostly a delight to see. The segment involving the maid and the peaches was remarkably well done. I might use that in film class as an example scene.
What's weird is that class-based critiques have gone the way of the dinosaurs, at least in the United States, with race and gender trumping it, as even poor people of the wrong race and gender are labelled "privileged." (I do not judge this phenomenon; I only observe.)
"Parasite" enables Hollywood to recall its heritage as a mouthpiece for the working-class, while in reality the wealthy people in that "industry" continue to employ cheap labor for service jobs at low wages.
Palme D'Or voters had to think about whether their servants might one day attack them, or did they not reflect on the movie's obvious statements about the size of their bank accounts and its relationship to their ethical behaviors? Why would they vote for this movie? Self-loathing?
I won't mind-read those voters’ motives, though. "Parasite" has some simplistic class messages that have some timely resonances, but which, because of their simpleness, also reduce the overall complexity of the work. The movie is less an artwork than it ought to be.
763. Yorum: 2019 Films Ranked 
High 5's
This was everything I wanted it to be. 
I laughed: The bloody napkin scene. Thinking she was going to grab a knife from the kitchen but uses peaches instead lol 
I almost cried: The dad looking at each corner of his home trying to remember every corner as it’s flooding. The ending! 
I was thrilled: Bong Joon-ho never fails at creating tension, buildup and release. 
Best of the year, and so metaphorical.
764. Yorum: Over the last decade plus, Joon-Ho Bong has been mastering his craft quietly and judiciously. Like Chan-Wook Park, the other mainstream Korean filmmaker whose films have snuck into American pop culture, Bong's *Korean* films have just gotten better as his voice grows clearer.
PARASITE is an extraordinary film. It tells a twisty story that constantly evolves - so much so that most critics don't even want to give any of the plot away. Its performances are superb (why does Song Kang-Ho always play dumb smart people?), its twists are shocking, its humor is pervasive, its tone is sublime, its filmmaking is envy-inducing and best of all: every scene is thematically sound.
Is it perfect? No. The first half is, holy shit. And the second half did some things I wasn't a huge fan of. But still, its second half is still lightyears better than the best parts of most films this year.
You know a movie is good when the audience can't stop talking the whole way out of the theater. Stepping out of Arclight Hollywood, all I could hear was people quoting the film, laughing about it and dissecting it. It's the kind of achievement filmmakers dream of.
This movie is really good.
765. Yorum: You know what kind of plan that never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
(Disclaimer: You may have heard that this film got leaked online, full subtitles and all, not very long ago. Before you ask, yes, that's how I watched it. Even if my reception to it wasn't as glowing as most others, as you're about to hear, if this does play in a theater near me during its official theatrical release, I will be more than happy to pay to see it on the big screen.)
The best way I can describe Parasite, though it may seem a tad unfair, is it being a mirror version of last year's Burning. The correlation is strong, to me at least. Both are South Korean films that begin as dramas, become thrillers, and are all about class struggle. The reputation of director Bong Joon-ho precedes him, and I was more than looking forward to this since it not only won the Palme d'Or at this year's Cannes, but it's also now one of the highest rated films on Letterboxd and IMDb not just of this year, but in general. No better way to hype a film up than to see every review for the film using the term "masterpiece" at least once. To the claims of Parasite being a masterpiece, I have to respond with "Huh?"
Now, don't get me wrong, I enjoyed this my fair share, and there's enough really good stuff in here for Bong to be more than happy with his creation. That being said, I also can't help but feel that the explorations of class and family didn't have as much impact on me as was intended. Despite, akin to the first half of Burning, time being focused on the lead characters from both families, I could've benefited from having a bit more characterization. I understood everyone's lifestyles very clearly, but who the Kims and the Parks were as people wasn't as clear. (I'll also say, in slight contrast to this, that everyone's performances are very solid. It's more of a problem I have with the writing than how it's presented.) That being said, without diverging into spoilers, there is a "twist" that happens smack dab in the middle where the film switches genres. From then on out, I will admit that I was hooked. I think my main disconnect is, unlike with Burning, that second half didn't feel as natural or earned.
I do feel like if I had to recommend one or the other, Burning is the film that's more worth your time, and it is a shame it didn't get the kind of massively warm and wide attention Parasite is getting. However, if you did love this film, and it seems as though the vast majority of people did, good on you. The first half of the film is a 6/10, the second half is an 8/10, and I'll give the film as a whole a few more pointers towards the latter than the former, because the second half on its own is pretty damn good through and through. (A lot of what makes that second half work initially is not knowing that it's coming, so avoid spoilers for this film, as much as you can. In contrast, maybe next time I see this, since I now know how the whole story goes, perhaps I'll enjoy it all a little more. We'll see.) If there is anything I enjoyed entirely with Parasite, it's the stellar musical score from Jaeil Jung. At times poetic in melody, and at other times intimidating, it's the film at its best told through music. A code.
(All you college movie bros and hoes out there wanting to write about socialism in film for your thesis paper, look no further.)
7.5/10
766. Yorum: طفيلي
إثبات وتأكيد واضح على تفوق السينما الاسيوية والكورية تحديدًا
في المستوى الفني وبفارق واضح وصريح للاعمى قبل المبصر 
في هذا الفيلم تجلت الدراما والكوميديا السوداء
عائلة فقيرة تحاول الاحتيال على هذه العائلة الغنية 
ولكن كما يقال ليس الامر بهذه السهولة 
الفيلم حصل على جائزة السعفة الذهبية في مهرجان كان 
والان مرشح للحصول على جائزة أفضل فيلم أجنبي في مهرجان الاوسكار القادم 
و أتمنى أن يحققها فهذا الفيلم بالمجمل بالنسبة لي هو أفضل فيلم هذا العام وبلا منازع
ونعود لنقطة البداية لماذا لا نشاهد في مختلف السينما سواء الامريكية أو البريطانية أو غيرها هذا الابتكار والابداع
وكأن القصص إنتهت .. مثلا هذه الافلام الكورية على كثرتها الا إنها تقدم فن محترم بقصص إبتكارية وحوارات مشوقة جدًا
وهو أمر أصبح من الصعب في هذا العصر السينمائي 
فالاغلب إتجه للركود على مستوى الافكار وبدأ فقط بتكرار تجاربه السينمائية السابقة 
وقفة شكر و إحترام يا رجل لهذا المخرج العظيم 
شكرًا بونغ جون- هو على هذا التحفة
767. Yorum: 
768. Yorum: Wow, this is brilliant and I may write more about it someday, but for now I've got newly developed trust issues and trauma to deal with 😱😱😱
769. Yorum: I'm not sure if a foreign language film has ever won best picture, but Parasite would definitely deserve it. Not sure the academy has the balls for it tho. Well at least it will win best foreign language film.
770. Yorum: what can i say other than this film is absolutely perfect
771. Yorum: 🍑 Click Here to Read My OG Review! 🍑
 
• Can you believe that, at one point, I actually thought that Parasite could possibly be less rewarding on a second viewing? Curse me! 
• This is still literally the fastest paced movie I’ve ever seen. Breezy content. 
• After people see Parasite, the peach emoji will no longer be seen as a symbol for “getting some cake” *wink wink* but it will, more or less, be a message you send to threaten someone. Thanks, Bong.
• Between this and Park Chan-wook’s Oldboy, Parasite may have the most enthralling climax of ALL-TIME. Korean filmmakers, am I right?
• You know the old saying that “less is more” and “simplicity is complexity?” In response to those phrases, Parasite was like, “NAHHHHHH.”
• I appreciated the twist significantly more on this revisit. It just fits so snug with the themes of this movie. 
• Even Alfred Hitchcock would’ve been like, “DAMNNNNNNNNNNNN.” 
• I fucking love this movie more than I love my love for movies. YEAH. I KNOW. 
• The praise should never stop. In my humble opinion, Parasite is possibly the best thing to happen to cinema in over half a decade. Honestly, a 4.5/5 on Letterboxd is too low. Smh. 
 
🏆 Verdict: A+ (duh) 
 
All-Time Favorites, Victors of the 2010s, 2019 Ranked 
772. Yorum: You guys ever think about how 2019 is probably the best year for film this century? And maybe even the best ever? Because I’ve been thinking about that a lot lately for whatever reason.  
To start, Portrait of a Lady on Fire is maybe the most romantically devastating movie I’ve ever seen. A24 went absolutely insane with unforgettable movies like The Lighthouse, Uncut Gems and Midsommar. The MCU peaked with Endgame and the anticipation leading up to that film was otherworldly. Knives Out is legitimately one of the funniest and most well written whodunnits of all time. Tarantino finally decided to make a plotless story with Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, and I loved it. Little Women had a Director and ensemble that would go on to take over the world. Marriage Story felt incredibly authentic. US proved Peele wasn’t a one hit wonder. Jojo Rabbit took the idea of imaginary Hitler and grounded it in the best way possible. And this film, Parasite blew my mind in every way. It was hilarious. It was thrilling. The writing and symbolism was superb. The twists and turns are wildly unpredictable. And overall, in a year that was full of all time great films this was absolutely deserving of its best picture win.
2019
Favorites
773. Yorum: My schedule will return to normal tomorrow but I do have to say "RIP Lee Sun-Kyun" at this moment. The apparent reason for the death: awful no matter if he was innocent or guilty of that charge. He was great in this film and sometime soon will be a review of another film of his.
774. Yorum: I was way too overly harsh the first time I watched this movie. I am glad I gave it a re-watch, though. I am still not as high on this film as the vast majority of the population, but it still is quite brilliant.
The first half of this movie is a cunning comedy with themes of classism in what is truly just a perfect and brilliant first hour of the film.
In the second half, things take a dark twist -- severely dark. The classist divides grow deeper and the characters' desperations and frustrations grow tenser as the film's tone shifts to a full-on thriller.
The ending of this movie still loses me a bit. The infiltrating family shows us they are brilliantly clever, incredibly deceptive, have extremely high IQ when it comes to people manipulation, and ultimately of the highest class of street skills yet many of the decisions they make that lead to their demise are bone-headed, dumb, and easily avoidable by people with the wit of their family.
Initially, I had wished the movie cut to the credits and ended at the culmination of the backyard murders as seeing Ki-woo alive with brain damage initially caused an eye-roll, but the morse code letter from his father and his fantasies of purchasing the home being brought back to reality by their crippling debt was a poignant exclamation point on the themes of this film.
The backyard murders provided shock value, albeit relatively expected to happen.
In summary, the first half of the film was perfect, and the very end was very moving, but the backyard murder scene and the events leading up to it lose me a bit; however, I must say this film grows on me more and more with age.
775. Yorum: A dazzling and brilliant display of mastery of acting, tone, editing, cinematography, and dialogue (with an ending a tad long, but Guernica ain’t perfect either), a movie that tells its tale with panache and intelligence and makes you laugh and gasp in horror in the same scene. So with that out of the way - I’m a Korean American who has been conflicted about his heritage his whole life and a fan of movies who has cared about the Academy Awards more than I should for almost as long, and when Jane Fonda announced this movie won the big enchilada at the Oscars, I wept so openly that the dude standing next to me at the Oscar party I attended kept peering over at me to see if I was okay. Thanks for reading!
776. Yorum: Dad, today I made a plan - a fundamental plan. I'm going to earn money, a lot of it. University, a career, marriage, those are all fine, but first I'll earn money. When I have money, I'll buy the house. On the day we move in, Mom and I will be in the yard. Because the sunshine is so nice there. All you'll need to do is walk up the stairs. Take care until then. So long.
There's nothing I can say of this movie that hasn't being said already... oh wait, it is! If you go into the Letterboxd™ page of the movie in your PC, the logo on the top left corner shows a message in morse-code. (After like 2 hours trying to decipher it, I finally made it, it says Bonghive).
Watching it for a third time, but in theaters now, was a religious experience.
777. Yorum: Didn't actually rewatch.
What an amazing win!! About a week ago I went to a Q&A and world premiere of the B&W version of Parasite.
I asked Bong "What is the most important advise you could give to young filmmakers?" He replied: "Be satisfied with oneself." Well I hope he can be satisfied now with himself. He has indeed made a great film. An instant classic. Congrats BONG JOON-HO!!!
Who even remembers Green Book?
778. Yorum: it never rains but it pours
779. Yorum: mm very metaphorical!
780. Yorum: 
781. Yorum: I feel bad about not being able to write a long, thought out review, but really go into seeing this knowing as little as possible. But things I liked:
1. All the characters that have different motives, world views, and moral compasses
2. The house
3. The cinematography
4. The twists
5. The clever social commentary
6. The script with dark humor
7. The theater experience
8. “It’s metaphorical.” 
This is so far the best Bong hit for me and I was deciding whether to give this a 4.5 or 5, but I cannot find anything that I disliked about it so it gets the full points.

EDIT: so I am actually taking away .5 a star because I can't give it the full 5 because thinking back on it I was not really emotionally affected by it and that needs to happen with my 5's. This is still a masterpiece though
Watched with Ralph and Sam
782. Yorum: Move over, Call Me by Your Name, there's a new peach movie in town.
783. Yorum: PARASITE is a twisted, effortlessly tense & absolutely thrilling masterpiece of a film filled with phenomenal performances from everyone involved. Easily a career best by the great Joon-Ho Bong. I could not of been more blown away by this film, it is perfect. The title “parasite” is so incredibly accurate for what the story is going for, it couldn’t be more fitting. I would definitely recommend going in completely blind, as I did. I can guarantee that you will not guess where this story goes. There were a few times in my head I thought “oh this is gonna happen” and I couldn’t have been more wrong every time. Halfway through the film it almost switches genres completely while somehow keeping a consistent tone, it’s incredible. From that point on it is RIVETING. I can’t recall a time where I felt so much anxiety during a film. It also is surprisingly really funny, lots of subtle dark humor that was completely up my alley. I was really quite emotional by the end of the film, I was really emotionally invested. This film got a few tears out of me. I was not prepared for this film at all & I really can’t even begin to explain how insane it is. The production design, cinematography, score, editing, acting, directing, screenplay are all AMAZING, this film is coming for all the Oscars.
784. Yorum: Masterful in every sense of the word. The entire film was a god-damn symphony. Whether it's the meticulously crafted scenes of horror, the pulsating thrills that are as excruciating and as brilliant as you'd expect with Korean cinema to the well-written social critiques and attitudes that Bong Joon-Ho so subtly pushes to the forefront of the film, you really can't knock it.
Parasite is smart, both on a film-making level and also within the confines of it's elaborate subtext. The uniqueness in which Joon-Ho delivers his work to us is a testament to his skill as an auteur. The guy is an absolute master and this is a wild film. I can't wait to watch it again.
Bong Joon-Ho Ranked.
785. Yorum: Hohohihohihohooooo boy oh boy oh boy
786. Yorum: Quite simply perfect. Every shot, every word spoken, every peach all meant something. The switch up this film takes is absolutely genius. The first half is an excellent comedy-drama and the second half when it becomes a thriller only elevates the film. But the overarching message surrounding the class system is so prominent and portrayed better than any other film I’ve seen. 
On rewatch I was far more impressed by the technical work, especially the camera work. Some really meaningful shots that helped push the film forward. And of course the performance are great. Kinda want to watch it again right now
787. Yorum: Gonna be my last log for a while because of summer holiday, so going out with a Bong.
788. Yorum: When a newly released film receives critical acclaim, even to the point of ending up on Letterboxd's top 250 list (currently at #7 no less!), it's easy to enter it with caution, assuming people just get caught up in the hype and exaggerate it.
Nah.
No joke, this is without a doubt one of the greatest films I've ever seen. Beyond making me physically shake in suspense, the impact it has left on me is indescribable. It will undoubtedly go down in history as a masterwork of filmmaking. It's a sign of cinema's bright future, though it's only a matter of time until it gets remade in America. Until that happens, please, watch this film already.
789. Yorum: what’s more terrifying: the “ghost” scene or the sex scene?
790. Yorum: in all aspects except physical i am a part of kim family
791. Yorum: "Analisando essa cadeia hereditária
Quero me livrar dessa situação precária
Onde o rico cada vez fica mais rico
E o pobre cada vez fica mais pobre
E o motivo todo mundo já conhece
É que o de cima sobe e o de baixo desce
Bom xibom, xibom, bombom!"
Written by Rogério Gaspar & Wesley Rangel
Performed by As Meninas
792. Yorum: More like “PARA-SEEEEEJT”! Don’t worry; the Danes will understand it and cherish this review. And one day, they’ll do a t-shirt of it.
793. Yorum: 
794. Yorum: Thank fuck they put this film on mexican theaters.
Truly awesome, but you already knew that.
795. Yorum: Holy. Fucking. Shit. Talk about an emotional roller-coaster, my audience was amazing and enhanced the experience so much. There was laughter, there were shocks, there was happiness, sadness, anger, pity, horror, there were scenes where the intensity inside the theater was almost unbearable. The most mesmerizing film I've seen in a very long time. This is what I call "cinema", folks!! Truly incredible and I cannot stop thinking about how powerful each scene is and how there is not a single scene that is more important than another, even the climax is as entertaining as the rest of the entire film. This is really a great year for movies.
796. Yorum: Wow at loss of words right now. What a powerful portrayal of income inequality which is a theme anyone can relate too no matter where you live. 
It goes overlooked because it’s so obvious, but it’s crazy the power money has and how it runs everything. Poverty becomes a stench that follows you no matter where you go. This smell you can’t escape. This pursuit to become wealthy so you can provide for your family becomes a burden, almost a heavy rock clinging too you at all times. 
Bong Joon-Ho’s topical drama is definitely one of the best movies of 2019.
797. Yorum: PURE CINEMA
798. Yorum: I can’t talk to anyone about my problems, because my problems are all financial. Everybody who cares doesn’t have the means to help. Everybody who has the means to help doesn’t care. So for the first time in my life this year I have practiced not really talking about my problems …JK I talk about my problems all the time, but not the financial. I talk about the behavioral problems that have arisen in me while dealing with all this, and I justifiably rage at apathetic, comfortable people because apathetic, comfortable people deserve to have their peace taken away (since they won’t give up anything else). 
I can feel it starting to manifest in my body - physical issues that pop up because I’m holding in all this stress and anxiety. It’s made me the physical and behavioral worst version of myself and I literally would rather die than do what it takes to not be that version of myself. Bootstraps? Pull them up? Fuck you 😌
Remember that viral tiktok from last year where the person was like, “I have one year of capitalism left in me”? 
⏳
799. Yorum: [7]
Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is a very rare film. It is timely, it seems to have emerged from the deep psychology of a culture in crisis, but without exhibiting cheap didacticism or stereotypes. It presents characters who are formed by their milieu but not wholly inscribed by it, individuals whose actions are, in the Brechtian sense, "typical" of their class position, but aren't without conflicting desires, regret, ambivalence. Parasite is both about the untenable hyper-division between the rich and poor, and the fact that a coming revolution -- lining all those one-percenters against the wall, as it were -- would be a sad, ugly business.
"I would be nice too if I were rich." That's how the perpetually cranky Chung-sook (Jang Hye-jin) responds to her husband Kim Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho) when he comments that the Parks, the wealthy family they are conning, are actually very nice people. Their son Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) is connected with the Park family by an old school friend, Min-hyuk (Park Seo-joon). This is the first moment that Parasite introduces not only class disparity but the basic lie of meritocracy. Ki-woo was the best English student in their class, but could not afford to go to college. Nevertheless, with Min-hyuk's recommendation, Ki-woo is employed by Mrs. Park (Cho Yeo-jeong) to serve as the English tutor for their daughter Da-hye (Jung Ji-so).
Through various machinations, Ki-woo's entire family is eventually employed by the Parks. This process is rather schematic, and can lead the viewer to expect a somewhat formulaic black comedy wherein each of the family members is discovered in turn as an impostor. What actually happens is much more intriguing. Entry into the Parks' world introduces a heightened class awareness in the Kim family. They are all, for the most part, given the chance to excel within their chosen positions, something none of them has really had before. But this poses a question. Why do the Parks have such a comfortable life while the Kims live in squalor? What makes these people better?
Ki-woo and Da-hye begin a relationship, even as Ki-woo knows that it cannot last. Ki-taek develops complex feelings toward his employers, taking a not-so-secret shine to the Mrs., and trying to be a bit too familiar with Mr. Park (Lee Sun-kyun). And when a major revelation places the Kims, especially Chung-sook, in a precarious position where they might sympathize with another poor couple in desperate straits, Chung-sook instead decides to try and gain leverage over them, with horrible results.
It is no accident that the relationship between the Parks and the Kims begins with the children. They are the least inculcated into rigid class definitions, so there is the possibility that they can see each other as equals. But Mr. Park knows immediately that Mr. Kim is a poor man. When he thinks Ki-taek cannot hear, he tells his wife that his driver smells like a boiled rag, the sort of smell that only old homeless people have. This is the point at which, despite all his efforts and goodwill, Ki-taek knows that he will never belong to this world, even as a servant.
"I would be nice too if I were rich." Chung-sook's words resonate as a kind of statement of purpose, but Bong shows us that even having contact with the sort of niceness that the Parks represent is enough to bring out the meanness in the Kims -- selfishness and ultimately murderous instincts that the rich can sublimate or abstract away into harsh monetary policy or job cuts. It's not only a question of who gets to keep their hands clean and whose must get irredeemably dirty. It's the fact that violence, in its many forms, begets violence, but only certain forms of violence are available to certain class positions.
The title, Parasite, is never literally explained in the film. I like the fact that this English title is easily misread as "paradise," a play on both the imagined perfection of the life of the wealthy, and the post-revolutionary promise of a workers' paradise. But more than this, I think that Bong means to show that it's not just the Kims infiltrating the Parks' home (which of course has already been compromised), but the Parks penetrating the Kims' own psyches, burrowing into their sense of identity and entitlement.
Some have suggested that Parasite is a darker version of Hirokazu Kore-eda's Shoplifters, but the film I think Parasite most resembles is Kurosawa's masterpiece High and Low. That film depicted the futility of class resentment and the basic nobility of the rich, even though its characters had to go through various psychological calisthenics to arrive there.
But Parasite ups the ante, because the idea of a smoothly functional society is no longer plausible, or desirable. Put another way, what happens when the threat is internal, when the call, so to speak, is coming from inside the house? Parasite is the prelude to what, in its own universe, looks like a senseless killing. But in fact, the payback has just begun.
800. Yorum: who would’ve thought bong joon ho would peak this high again? this is one of his best films. outstanding
801. Yorum: Don't know what was more surreal —the fact that Bong-Hive made a totally gonzo Marxist fable that bends genre in weird and unpredictable ways, or the fact that Werner Herzog sat in front of me and offered his silhouette to frame the film like an MST3000 episode. PARASITE (2019) is exactly what its title suggests, only you're never entirely sure who's the leech, and who's the host. That’s part of its brilliance. Your perceptions are constantly being toyed with, in one moment rooting for those at the bottom of the food chain, while in another moment weirdly sympathizing with those who occupy the spacious top. It is clear, however, that the dynamics between upper and lower classes are ever-evolving, swinging back and forth, trading places in a system that eats its own and starves them from ever filling their financial bellies. It's a mean, scandalous examination of class rage by way of Buñuel, the way it pits poverty against affluence and draws you into its cockroach-ridden, Battle Royale standoff. Could have been a little more lean and less overstuffed, but this rotten parable of class inequity largely works through the home invasion genre to deliver a creepy thriller that bites, and social commentary that stings.
Watched at the 2019 Telluride Film Festival
802. Yorum: After a short message about actress Park So-dam, this movie was recommended to me by sci-fi Wasabi.
Hi Letterboxd people. Chad here. Remember those days when you're so broke you had to manage a small budget just to get by? I mean really stretch that sucker to make a dolla' holla'. Just the other day I was buying two potatoes at 89 cents a pound to have with my eggs. Only wanted to spend a total of 1.75 I think. I weighted the potatoes on the scale. Over 2 pounds. Son of a bitch. So I got a potato that was even smaller, and put the medium size one back.
Yes that last week before payday can really suck, if one isn't to cautious with the spending habits. Well I've grown accustomed to refrigerated tap water, because on a hot day it taste sssooo goood. Well this movie is about a family that knows the poor life very well, and what they do about it to improve their lives.

PARASITE
Kim-Ki Taek ( Song Kang-ho ) is chilling on the floor trying to get a power nap in. He is a unemployed dad making the best of his situation. He doesn't want to live in this old banjiha in one of Seoul South Korea's gettho with his teenage son and daughter and wife. Their phones are off, and now the wifi. The kids are searching every corner of their basement flat for another wifi connection. His wife Chung-sook ( Jang-Hye-Jin ) taunts her hubby asking what is his plan.
Well after a gift from the son's friend that is a large scholar rock that symbolizes wealth and prosperity, the two have a few drinks. Then he mentions to Ki-woo ( Cho-Woo-shik ) about taking over his tutoring job duties so he can study abroad. The teaching assignment is English classes to a teenage girl that is a daughter of a very wealthy family.
With fake documents photoshop by his sister Jessica/ Ki-jung ( Park So-dam ) and a recommendation from his friend he gets the job. His boss Yeon-teyo ( Cho-Woo-shik ) is very gullible and pretty easy to deceive. After getting to know his employers more, he convinces Yeon-teyo to hire his sister Jessica as a art therapist for Yeon's son. Well Jessica and Ki-woo see this as a opportunity to get some green in mom and dad's pockets too. So after a couple of planned mischievous setups that gets two employers fired, Chung-sook and Kim are in the gig too. They don't dare tell Yeon and her wealthy husband Park Dong-ik ( Lee Sun-kyun ) that they are all related, but how long can this family living on skid row blvd carry this ruse?
Hats off to the director Bong Joon-ho for combining four or five genres in the movie, and pulling off that incredible achievement. For one thing you've got to have great acting here to sell the story. With perfect timed closeups, the right emotions that fit the scenes like a glove, and very good scripts, well you can't go wrong.
Bong Joon-ho knew he had the right ingredients to cook up a tasty story, so he seems to take this tale to comedy, drama, dramedy, a little romance and even horror all in one wrapped up package. The movie deserves all the awards.
Kim-ki-taek: Wow, does Oxford have a major in forgery?
I really love the humor in this movie. But damn that last 20 minutes was bonkers. Just wonderful character acting all around with Cho Yeo-jeong topping most of the performances. But for my money I'll say the top two are Song kang-ho and Park So-dam. Song kang-ho just has fun in his role as a slacker dad and a pretend experienced driver for rich clients. He really jumps from one role to the next with ease. And those closeups of Kim-kit tank's disgusted expression on his face, when he hears his boss tells his wife that he smells like poor people. Song also has some believable and funny chemistry with Jang-Hye-Jin.
Well......when Jessica tells her boss that her son shows signs of schizophrenia just because of some crap colored in the corner of two pictures he drew, well really funny stuff. Jessica wants to open that black box in the kids mind for futher observation in his personality. Come on! Are you serious?? But Park So-dam just sells her role as the fake art therapist. Her professional conversations with pauses of concern in her dialouge with Yeon. But her drunk scene in the rich folks home with the rest of her family was too much 😆. And it's one of my favorite scenes hence the Letterboxd backdrop.
I was pretty impressed with Park So-dam in the movie The Silenced, and I'm sure another review of one of her movies I'll log in perhaps in a few weeks.
This director knows how to read people. He has ( I'm sure ) the majority of the viewers caring about the poor family. Very likable bunch. But they only care about themselves, and that's where the story takes a few unexpected twists and turns.
The character traits of the rich family at times is a enigma. They pay their new four employees well, including something extra to adjust to inflation, and overtime just to be at parties. But the snobynest is still there, as they begin to associate the four hire ons to the poor class smell. How soon they forget. As they used to ride the subways too.
I really love the love that both families have for their families. They really care for each other. Park Dong-ik isn't sure if he calls it love. But he doesn't seem to mind that his wife just sleeps around the house all day, and he spends time with his young son with those walkie-talkies.
Lol, long review of appreciation I know. The poster I choose is very cool. It's a reminder that it's just a movie. Kind of reminds me of the actors and actresses being introduced at the ending of the movie The Bad Seed.
In closing, this is a excellent watch. And I consider it a privilege to watch such quality cinema. There is a word that I never used in any of my reviews. But the noun describes great movies such as Chinatown and A Raisin in the Sun, to name a few. Such a word also sums up the movie Parasite. Masterpiece 🎥
803. Yorum: A masterpiece, that's all
804. Yorum: Bong joon-ho’s “parasite is my fav foreign film
and it’s one of the greatest films ever made
This is my first rewatch of the dark twisted psychological thriller masterpiece And it was
Better this time around. A film with layers of 
This degree can not all be unpacked in 1 watch. 
So many hidden details and underlying themes throughout the story I love how the family’s drive and sense of perspective is displayed early on during the pizza box scene b4 u even know what they’re really capable of. The display of South Korean social classes was 
Elegant while the vibe and aura was haunting.

Such amazing performances throughout 
With a stunning visual aesthetic in its chilling 
Nature. 10/10 5 stars Perfect film. Top 20 oat
                       *With a perfect ending*
805. Yorum: It's just nuts how perfect this film is.
Like any metric upon which you want to measure it, they're all 10 out of 10. Acting. Cinematography. Humor. Commentary. Batshit insanity. Ten, ten, ten, ten, ten.
I was so due for a revisit, my first since it was released. 2019 was such a great year for movies that this still isn't my favorite (I'm a 1917 guy) but this film really is just perfect.
806. Yorum: 
807. Yorum: First review
Second review
Third review
I introduced my younger brother to Korean cinema and for that I chose the obvious entry point. He loved the film, which doesn´t surprise me, since I know that he loves movies with unpredictable twists and turns (oh, he will love Korean cinema).
Well, everything has been said about “Parasite” and I can only repeat my praise for the excellent blending of genres, mastery over tone and atmosphere, technical brilliance in all areas of filmmaking, symbolism, foreshadowing, thematic depth and sharp social commentary, story structure and pacing, incredible entertainment and rewatch value, and the stellar cast. Song Kang-ho is one of the greatest actors alive and Cho Yeo-jeong´s performance is underrated in my opinion (she is such an integral part of the movie), but on every watch my favorite is Park So-dam. I love her and want to see more of her. For some reason, the shot of her smoking a cigarette while sitting on the overflowing toilet is my favorite shot of the movie (and there are many iconic shots in this film). My favorite scene has to be the whole peach montage, it´s peak cinema. Furthermore, the house of the rich family is a top 10 movie house of all time. It´s basically a character of its own.
I´ve finally bumped up my rating to the full 5 stars. “Parasite” is one of the best movies of the century so far and every rewatch is as enthralling as the first time while also always revealing something new.
808. Yorum: "They are rich but still nice."
"They are nice because they are rich."
809. Yorum: this isn’t a eat the rich movie, this is the eat the rich movie.
810. Yorum: "Look at this. Your pulse is racing. The heart doesn't lie. An exam is like slashing through a jungle. Lose that momentum and you're finished. The answer to #24? I don't care. Slashing through the exam, dominating it! That's all I care about. What you need is vigor."

Bong Joon-ho has created what may just be one of the genuinely greatest films of all time.
Parasite is by all means, a masterpiece. At its core, this film is a metaphorical dark comedy that takes a unique approach to commenting on and criticising the war between economic classes. Unlike most films that tackle these themes, this film doesn’t really side with anyone. It instead, focuses on showing the ways that a person economic status can slowly cause them to become monsters with the characters all essentially being parasites. Hence the name of the film. 
The masterfully executed subject matter aside, this is just an overall perfect film. It features phenomenal performances from the entire cast, the major standout for me being Song Kang-ho who played the father in the film and I am genuinely surprised he wasn’t at least nominated, especially considering how many things this film did get nominated for. 
Another aspect of this film that really just impressed me was how well it manages to balance its frequently shifting tone. Parasite often goes from being pretty damn hilarious to shockingly dark without it feeling jarring in the slightest. 
At some point I will probably do a full analysis on this film and go in detail on how I personally perceive the hidden messages and metaphors expressed throughout the film but for now, I’m going to give Bong Joon-ho‘s critically acclaimed Parasite, an A+
Thanks for reading 


2019 ranked 
811. Yorum: had only seen this once - in theaters - and i was a lil worried this wouldn’t be as good on rewatch knowing all the bonkers stuff coming down the pike. but guess what!! SHES STILL GOT IT BABEY
812. Yorum: ....and they were PARASITES
813. Yorum: happy easter, fuck the rich!!!! even better the second time around, still in complete awe of bong’s mind!!!
814. Yorum: the poor family in this be like “and that’s on peaches”
815. Yorum: “She’s rich, but still nice.”
“Not ‘rich, but still nice.’ She’s nice because she’s rich. Hell, if I had all this money, I’d be nice too!”
Watching this movie with my thriller-adoring mother and hearing her gasp every two minutes is truly the best (belated) Christmas gift I could ever receive
Favorites
2019 Ranked
Best Picture Winners Ranked
Best Director Winners Ranked
Favorite Screenplays
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
Neon Ranked
816. Yorum: bong joon-ho: I support rich people's right... rich people's right to shut the fuck up!
817. Yorum: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH the excellence! Pure excellence!!!!!
818. Yorum: 96%


“Would you like to open the black box with me, Madame?”


Bitterness, contempt, disgust, rage. A polite smile turns into a look of envy. A calm composure erupts into something more manic. Seething rage bubbling under ones skin. It’s like a black box, containing all these repressed emotions. Emotions change so fast in an instant, to hide their true intentions. People would do anything to survive in this cruel world, it’s a matter of flight or fight, would you lie to get your way? Do you manipulate people through meticulous planning to get the upper hand? Or do you cower, submit to the suffocating class division? Submit to the fact that people have power over you?
Bong Joon Ho creates something so devilishly cunning, so darkly humorous, a suspense that makes you grip your seats. He has blended genres, mixed them together, forming a strange beast of his own. A beast that can’t be replicated. Something that no one but him can pull off. He’s a master at his own craft. Deceiving the audience, creating an underlying sexual tension, each scene going off at comical timing, creating satires that comment on societal issues. Ranging from, Class Anxiety, Socioeconomics, the incompetence of the police, the love of his parents. He has a grip on each story. When you think he is about to cross the line, he doesn’t. That’s simply the tell tale sign that you’re in a Masters hands.
Metaphorical symbols in each image, making it more thematically deep. Unpredictable fate, whatever plans you make, are all futile. Only time can tell, if you’re going to succeed or fail. The characters obsession with exterminating bugs. Parasitic behaviours from the Kims as they slowly start to wiggle themselves, like a bug into the Park’s lavish lifestyle. Perceptions twisted to show class division.
Each character, flawed, explored. Each one brazenly selfish or unsympathetic towards others. Some naive while kind. Some obsessed with certain things. Some seething with rage underneath a calm facade. We see foxes underneath sheep’s clothing. No one is unwilling to harm another person, be it psychologically or physically. Everyone is callous in their actions. Some unpredictably violent and conniving. After all, who doesn’t desire to live lavishly? Under a big roof, luxurious gleaming surfaces. Lush greenery that surrounds your house. After all, no one wants to live in a slum. 

If a film like Mother doesn’t cement Bong as an auteur, then Parasite will. He does anything to get a reaction out, be it gasps of shock, boisterous laughter, looks of anticipation even makes you reflect on societal issues. Blow after blow, one ironic contradiction after another, one metaphor being stacked upon each other, we have no choice but to admit (be it begrudgingly) that Bong has made something masterful. I doubt that another film this year would make me as astonished as Parasite.
819. Yorum: 
820. Yorum: 10/10
My seventh watch.
I can't believe I let myself go more than two months without rewatching this. Watched for the podcast.
821. Yorum: Watched in the cinema
Money is an iron with which one can smooth out all wrinkles. Class war in a different way. Social imbalance is certainly not a new topic for director Bong Joon-ho. Already his dystopian comic adaptation Snowpiercer was dedicated to the gap between rich and poor, but Parasite now shifts this conflict to contemporary Seoul. Initially, not only in terms of content, but also in terms of clear visual separation between those up there and those down there. But the borders are soon to become permeable and ultimately blurred. Here the Kim family between folded pizza boxes and the unencrypted WLAN of the neighbour in a cellar hole, there the Park family between wine rack and housekeeper in the huge house of a star architect.
Joon-ho has already realized many great movies: Memories of Murder, The Host or Mother for example, but Parasite is his masterpiece so far. Extremely precise and with an open mind he dissects the social imbalances piece by piece, yet never succumbs to the temptation to moralize. He does not judge, but only depicts and fully trusts the viewer to draw his own conclusions. Thus, Joon-ho doesn't only send his characters, but especially the viewer with his exaggerated as well as equally pointed and clever parable through a rollercoaster of emotions.
Tonally, Parasite changes its mood at will and is sometimes slapstick, sometimes drama, sometimes thriller and then again comedy, is bitterly angry, weird, deeply sad, thrilling, hilarious, shocking, surprising and most of all: always completely unpredictable. Not one twist, not one narrative trick did I see coming and there are some of them to marvel at. The plot is both changeable and unpredictable, can book strong changes of perspective for itself and offers a lot of critical subtext, yet at the same time comes along with a sometimes almost playful lightness, that is second to none.
Formally, everything is just right here and Parasite is flawless in its entire staging down to the very last detail, no matter how small. Joon-ho really shows all his skills, because despite the spatial limitation of the setting his movie looks breathtakingly good, stands out with an enormous visual elegance and delivers one perfectly composed picture after the other. Timing and pacing are brilliant, when every punch line, every twist, yes, even every sentence is exactly in the right place. Nothing is left to chance here, but every second seems completely organic and anything but artificial.
Parasite is a wild and surprisingly well-functioning genre mix between social criticism and class struggle, but knows no winners, only gradations of loss. Joon-ho wanders effortlessly between slapstick and thriller, between bitter satire and dark horror, between fleeting dreams and harsh reality, between life at the subsistence level and life in abundance. What ultimately remains is the image of a downpour of indescribable proportions, which for some cleans the air and streets, but for others could mean the extinction of their entire existence. Just like that and nobody would be interested.
No other film this season has been able to fascinate me so much, to carry me away, to entertain me and at the same time make me think. Every Oscar is well deserved!
822. Yorum: "This is so metaphorical!"
823. Yorum: One minute I’m laughing my ass off and the next I’m having a panic attack. 
Masterpiece.
824. Yorum: First of all , i Just wanna say that "Memories of Murder" is Still My Favorite Joon-ho Bong Film, But that doesn't Make this any less of a masterpiece in my Book, Definitely One of the best films of this year,what a superb Mix of comedy and tragedy, Happiness and Sadness, joy and sympathy.
825. Yorum: Well, I'm drinking the Kool-Aid on this one.
What a masterwork of cinema!
I'd say this is looking to be director's Bong Joon-ho best and most personal film he has made yet.
Without getting into specifics, this film reminded me a lot of a particular horror film directed by Wes Craven.
I'm not going to say which film of his it was, as I think if I were to name the movie, it would spoil things about this film.
But I'm 99% sure you'll be able to identify which film of his it is after watching this, even if you haven't seen that said film.
Just watch the movie. I'll say no more fam.
It's so rightfully deserving on winning the Palme d'Or at this years Cannes Film Festival.
826. Yorum: I had to show this masterpiece to my mother
827. Yorum: I've said it before and I'll say it again: it's fucking Parasite, what can I say that hasn't been said a thousand times before? How the film blends the comedy and thriller genre nearly perfectly, in such a way that I honestly can't compare it to anything else? That the set design, performances, and direction all help craft this beautiful tale of class separation and desperation, aided by the wonderfully layered script, metaphors, and foreshadowing you could easily overlook on the thousandth viewing? Hell, I don't think I've seen a film that will so obviously go down as a classic, and I've still yet to see one top this.
It's honestly not my favorite of the best picture nominees of its year, but that should tell you just how good the nominees were, because I can't find a single reason this shouldn't have won. Parasite is a masterpiece, but if you've spent any time on here, you've heard that countless times before, so instead I'll try to add something that's at least newer than the typical praise: my mom usually cannot stand movies with subtitles, but she watched this tonight because of the legacy it already has, and she's already called it one of her favorite movies.
828. Yorum: starting off my birthday with a perfect movie! that’s how everyone should celebrate! so thankful to see 25 years. wouldn’t have made it this long without movies in my life ❤️
829. Yorum: It’s my 17th birthday, so I decided to watch Parasite for a third time and here’s my thoughts:
Bong Joon-Ho is a masterful director and in Parasite he reflects this in every aspect. It’s a thriller film where every single detail is foreshadowed yet never truely is in the audiences peripheral vision until the climax of the film. Where it comes together in such a surreal and almost dreamlike way. I say this because this part of the film is so dark, yet utilises very light colours making it very uneasy.
It’s a film about class divide and the way it uses two very distinct symbolic elements to display this divide is genius. You may already know these but I still can’t get over how genius they are. In dialogue the ‘line’ between these two families is mentioned through the scent of the lower class. Through the cinematography and placement of characters shows a distinct line between both families, this placement creating a distinct line is a every interaction is a nice detail, showing this divide from the two families. The second being elevation, the upper class family lives at the top of the elevation, where the lower class sits at the the bottom, and the lower you go, the lower your class. The scene in the rain signifies this in the most heartbreaking way.
It’s masterful, the writing elevates all the characters, as it’s witty and has a lot of heart to it. It’s a movie with a ton of genres, but I like to call it genre less. The way the plot moves with every twist and turn until the final moment makes this a very fun and nail biting watch. 
The end is so bittersweet, you know Ki-woo will never buy the house or meet his dad yet just like Ki-woo you have a tiny glimpse of hope that this would happen. Don’t ask me why but on this watch the end made me cry. I still love this movie because of how much it says, and how it utilises its symbolism and characters.  This is never gonna get old.
10/10
830. Yorum: Bong Joon-hos best picture winning masterpiece is completely unique and absolutely masterfully directed. With great dark humor and a clever use of it's themes of classism and bigotry, absolutely great character building, beautiful cinematography, great dialouge and clever editing. As it starts everything seems pretty normal but then the more it goes on the more it just keeps taking you to different places you probably wont see coming and it's all the better for it.
831. Yorum: Best. Fucking. Picture. Indeed.
832. Yorum: 
833. Yorum: Winner of the 2019 Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay, Best Director, Best International Film, and Best Picture.
834. Yorum: Parasite is a brilliant film, a compelling story, excellently told, full of irony, satire, nuance and dramatic tension. Parasite is an intriguing look at class and privilege. It's evident that the Kim's can never truly ascend to the dizzy, luxuried heights of their masters, the Park's, but in a world where so many have so little and wealth is in the hands of the few, who then are the Parasites?
835. Yorum: The People Under the Stairs. "Parasite" cleverly re-invents the home invasion thriller as a con man lark. Bong Joon-ho spends the first hour lulling the viewer with sharp comedy and social satire before revealing the movie's subterranean depths with a Hitchcockian flair. If I'm underselling the film's many delights, it may be because the director makes his delicate balancing act of humor and terror seem effortless.
836. Yorum: a assombração que é pra burguesia o mero relance da pobreza e da desgraça que parecia distante daquela arquitetura minimalista
837. Yorum: Don’t just eat the rich, suck their blood. They did it first.
838. Yorum: 10/10
My eighth watch.
One year ago today, I saw Parasite for the first time. It's safe to say that this movie has changed my life in that time - it's defined the past year for me and is probably the movie I've spent the most time thinking about (at least in proportion to the time elapsed since I first saw it). When I watch Parasite, I watch the most vital and precise storytelling I've ever seen come to life. Probably the most perfect movie ever made. Here's to one year of Parasite.
839. Yorum: “But until then... just hang in there.”
840. Yorum: Masterpiece 
/ˈmɑːstəpiːs/
noun
1. a work of outstanding artistry, skill, or workmanship.
2. this film
841. Yorum: PARASITE IS LITERALLY LEGENDARY IM SO SO SO SO SO HAPPY BONGHIVE FOREVER
842. Yorum: The coda is more satisfying the second time around, when you understand that this is ultimately Ki-woo's story (the son of the Kim family).
843. Yorum: Chaotic harmony.
844. Yorum: I guess you could say I’m kind of an expert in foreign films 🧐
845. Yorum: 
846. Yorum: There are evil rich people, then there are those who are just so oblivious to even the most important realities of life, and sometimes that's just as bad. So metaphorical but with a message so clear and told so distinctly!
Rest in peace Lee Sun-kyun, you were great as Mr. Park :(
847. Yorum: One of the best films ever made 
Best Picture Rank
848. Yorum: 4ever wishing i could just step foot in that house
849. Yorum: it's my 21st birthday and what better way to celebrate than watch the best film ever made !


˗ˏˋ added toˊˎ˗
400 films for 2021 (54/400)
liv’s fave films
oscar nominated best pictures [all years]
2019 [all films watched]
blu ray collection
850. Yorum: This movie is the literal fucking definition of absolute fucking tense
851. Yorum: - Me watching the first half of the film: How could this movie become more PERFECT than what it sounds to be like!
- Movie in second half: gets more intense and unexpectedly become a masterpiece.
- Me: What the damn hell!?
I recommend this to everyone, every-one has to watch thiss.
852. Yorum: To quote one of my least favorite films of the past few years.
I used to think my life (this film) was a tragedy, but now I realize it’s a comedy (when watching with a bunch of people).
853. Yorum: Ooof.
Okay, I started writing a review of Parasite and it accidentally got eaten by letterboxd halfway through (the dangers of hitting the wrong key on the keyboard around here) so what you're getting is the slightly shorter, clumsier, more annoyed version of my reflection. Sorry! Which is to say, I was really struck by not only the decisions the characters made, but the decisions that they didn't make.
There's that scene that follows the family's celebration/drinking party in the living room while looking out at the lawn where the old housekeeper returns, and they discover that a) there's a sub-basement under the wine cellar b) the old housekeeper's husband has been hiding down there all this time c) she'd really like to continue the arrangement where the narrative and what it's been so far with the poor family gradually pulling the wool over the eyes of the rich family threatens to tear free, you can get the sense of the story potentially going in any direction......just like Kim Chung-sook, trying to deal with the sudden request from the former housekeeper and rejecting it-both families are desperate to defend their modest graft, both families are desperate to not rock the boat too much, to just use the Parks enough to give themselves....a better share of the bare minimum? The old housekeeper upbraids the Kims for not having any imagination, for just sitting there drinking and watching the lawn when she sees the evidence of their party laid out in the living room, but her own plan (pay off the new housekeeper, get food delivered to her husband in the basement on a regular basis so he can keep living tucked away in his little cave below the world) is a pretty depressing arrangement in its own right (mildly less depressing than being caught by his creditors would be, I suppose)
And when the deal is rejected out of fear, out of pride or a sense of a family marking their territory, saying that the rich family is ours and we're not going to share, it's what sparks the dissolution of both families that follows, the attempt to hold on to the Park's house at all costs for both of them triggering a chain of events that leads to one family completely destroyed, and the other broken, reduced in number and back where they started, in the basement, with the son planning out a new life that involves immersing himself in the system that's destroyed his life in order to connect with his father again in the house that's come to exert such control over both their lives throughout the film.
There's a real sense that things could have gone very differently, especially in the second half of the film, is what I'm saying, but the characters are constrained-by their egos maybe, by their fear, by their ability to create unnecessary enemies in their desire to join a family that Mr. Kim realizes (tragically, too late) will never see them as equals, lacks the most basic of common ground.
So yeah, I keep coming back to that scene in the basement, and Mrs Kim putting her foot down and refusing to help out the old housekeeper, the characters inability to work together. It dovetails with Kim's speech to his children in the shelter later in the film, after their basement's flooded, where he gives the 'You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all' speech, and it suddenly becomes clear that the same fear that's kept him alive and made him a survivor, the same fear that makes him unwilling to develop any sort of long term plan or see any vision more than 'grift your way into a good job and sit around in your bosses' house drinking alcohol and staring at the lawn' as unrealistic -that determined short-term approach to thinking is what eventually dooms his family to being where they are at that birthday party and leads him back into the basement where he's a prisoner at the end of the film, having replaced the old housekeeper's husband and spending his nights punching out morse code in the hopes that his son sees it, and that's the overwhelming sense I'm left with--it didn't have to be that way.
It could have been different.
Should have been, even.
854. Yorum: Yep it’s still perfect
855. Yorum: Just peachy
856. Yorum: It’s clear to me from the Korean cinema I’ve had the pleasure of watching that there is a real interest in telling stories that revolve around social classes and the tensions that lie there when they collide. Parasite was able to find some compelling, unique pain, urgency, and humor in that dynamic unlike anything I’ve seen before.
I was immediately drawn to this family that clearly come from a place without the means of their upper-class counterparts they stumble upon later on, but they use their cunning and wit to connive themselves into a better position. I especially love the use of technology as an accessible, invaluable tool they have at their disposal to aid in their scheming. Truly it is so interesting to see a less fortunate family being portrayed and intelligent and resourceful instead of self-pitying and depressed. They are the anti-heros, and they play those roles with grace.
The wealthy family on the other hand is shown to be naive, trusting and a bit out-of-touch with reality. Seeing them fall for trick after trick playing out blatantly in front of their faces makes for a suspenseful viewing, but also hilarious relief.
What I wasn’t expecting was for this film to take the turn it did into the real darkness. I won’t spoil it for anyone reading this review, so I’ll be vague but it’s clear that Bong Joon Ho too extra care that the darkness works just as well as the light. That took it over the top for me.
4.5/5 Watch this film if you’re in the mood for many genres at once, being done masterfully
857. Yorum: It's hard going into a movie new enough that it's not been distributed outside of its home country yet wins the Palme d'Or and quickly rises to the 6th spot on this site's Top 250 list. What makes it especially interesting though is that it's a Korean movie, which by now has been known for being a little quirky to Westerners. I've watched Korean cinema for some time now and some can feel a little over-hyped by those unfamiliar with that landscape. My biggest fear was that the same would happen to Parasite, but I'm very thankful to say that it plays into its industry's quirks but then transcends it.
The first thing that stands out to me is how incredibly clean, slick, and smooth everything is. The camera work is gorgeous, with so many roving shots that keep things interesting and slowly show us what's initially hidden from view. This works really well considering that one theme of Parasite is the way that signifiers of wealth keep us from being aware of actual wealth disparity, not because we want to or are bad people but just because it's easier.
The second thing is how much this movie displays the tropes of Korean cinema without ever crossing the line but instead blending them together until it's all one cohesive mix. Sometimes Korean movies irk me by having tonal shifts so abrupt it takes me out of the experience. Here I never felt that way at all and was so impressed at how the "genre-shift" moments never distract, making the movie feel like it really earns its uncategorizable nature.
The third thing is how balanced all the characters are, with no one ever written as an obvious hero or villain. Everyone is largely equal in all but wealth, it's just that which side of wealth they lie on begets different poisons. Many movies that tackle this issue end up being too heavy-handed, with little nuance for us to actually chew on. Here it's almost a little too light; well maybe not too light, just not easy to denounce anyone really. The family with wealth are oblivious, naive, and generous thanks to the cushion that this wealth affords them; the family without are manipulative, destructive, and determined in their approach to attain it. Everyone is complex and it'll come down to the viewer to actually decide who's good in their eyes and who's not.
"You know what kind of plan that never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. Got it?"
Parasite feels like it strikes a great balance between social commentary and Korean revenge thriller. It's so technically impressive that you might get caught up in it without ever really engaging with its themes, but it's also very rewarding should you choose to. It's very accessible and works as straightforward entertainment while also asking the viewer to think on questions that aren't leading.

[Joint-review with Hay on All That Film here
▹ spoiler discussion here]
858. Yorum: 
859. Yorum: why would they get freaky on the couch literally anyone could walk in and see that 😭
860. Yorum: What The Fuck. PARASITE ≠ PARADISE 🔥🔥🔥
The entire movie was so good and i dont even know where to start. Do not know why, but since the movie started i already wanted this family to be happy, to get what they deserve. I was happy and stressed all the time when they were during this whole operation. Sometimes i couldnt get if this is drama, comedy or thriller. Full film i was curious whats gonna happen, if they gonna catch them how happy this ending will be. Of course many plot twists that crushed my brain and my mouth couldnt shut up. Every minute of movie was filled with emotions. The bad and the good ones. Movie about being poor but its more complicated and its so good because of that. Its not just a story blah blah and the happy ending. They were fighting, was many falldowns many high-ups that viewer felt with them. They did good with casting, with camera shots and with picture of family. 10/10.
861. Yorum: I’m a fucking idiot. I just now realized that this mfkr has a movie called THE HOST and a different movie called PARASITE. And I feel even dumber because I don’t know what it all means. Why Bong, why?? They have to be connected somehow. They have to be.
Favorites
862. Yorum: Top notch film: every character is sympathetic in their own way, the concept is strong but doesn't overpower the film with allegory, good ending, slightly upsetting, terribly funny, very beautiful. To top it off, it actually bothers with denouement! I had thought that was a dead art. The threads it does not tie together are as haunting as the ones it does.
Watch. And if you see a plot summary first, run.
863. Yorum: the porn bots on here liking all of my reviews when no else will>>>
thank you ladies❤️
864. Yorum: One of my favorite theatrical experience ever... the main reason? Cause I literally went into the movie having no idea what it was about nor seen any of the film’s trailers. When you go into something like that and it turns out to be great across the board, it leaves an even bigger impression upon you...surprise is one of the biggest reasons we watch cinema.
Likewise, I don’t wanna say anything else about it except that it still holds up on a rewatch and totally deserves all the accolades that it received. Truly one of the best of the decade.
865. Yorum: One question what did I just witness? 
I mean I was told it’s one of the best movies ever made but I didn’t actually believe that till I saw it I mean fucking hell that was shocking and so unexpected it wasn’t at all what I thought it was going to be that last half and hour is SO FUCKING CRAZY ITS UNBELIEVABLE. 
This movie is definitely in my top four  I’ll put it somewhere in there when I get home so get ready.
10/10
866. Yorum: And y’all thought peaches peaked on “Call Me By Your Name”.
867. Yorum: took my mum to see this best oscar picture winner 2020!
868. Yorum: Parasite has received universal critical acclaim due to some bullshit capitalism metaphor that no one will shut the fuck up about. However, if you look past this and truly analyze the film you will find that, outside its solid pacing, well written, consistent characters, and unique story that manages to smoothly merge a comical and fun first half with a much more sinister and thrilling second half, there is little to like about this foreign feature. The fact that its final half hour manages to be quite unexpected despite its incredibly meticulous set up is also an achievement deserving of no recognition. Adding to these numerous failures is the fact that I couldn’t understand a single fucking word any of the characters were saying. Really have to question the Acedemy on this one. 0 out of 5 stars.
869. Yorum: “... --- / .-.. --- -. --.”
- .... . .-. . / .. ... / ... --- -- . - .... .. -. --. / -... . -. . .- - .... / - .... . / ... ..- .-. ..-. .- -.-. . --..-- / .-- .- .. - .. -. --. / - --- / -.-. --- -- . / --- ..- - .-.-.- / .- / --. .... --- ... - --..-- / .--. .- - .. . -. - .-.. -.-- / .--. ..- - - .. -. --. / .. -. / .... .. ... / - .. -- . / .- -. -.. / .... .. ... / -- . ... ... .- --. . ... / .- -. -.. / .... .. ... / .-- --- .-. -.. ... / - --- / - .... . / .-- --- .-. .-.. -.. / -... . .-.. --- .-- .-.-.- / - .... . -.-- / ... .- -.-- / .... . / -... .-. .. -. --. ... / .-- . .- .-.. - .... / - --- / - .... . / .... --- ..- ... . .... --- .-.. -.. --..-- / - .... . -.-- / ... .- -.-- / .... . / .. ... / .. -- .--. --- ... ... .. -... .-.. . / - --- / ... . . --..-- / -... ..- - / ... --- -- . / .--. . --- .--. .-.. . / .-- --- ..- .-.. -.. / - . .-.. .-.. / -.-- --- ..- / --- - .... . .-. .-- .. ... . .-.-.- / .... . / .. ... / .-- .- .. - .. -. --. / ..-. --- .-. / - .... . / -- --- -- . -. - / .-- .... . .-. . / .... . / -.-. .- -. / -.-. --- -- . / --- ..- - / .- -. -.. / ... .... --- .-- / - .... . / .--. . --- .--. .-.. . / .- -... --- ...- . / .... .. -- / - .... . / ..-. . .- .-. / .... . / -.-. .- -. / ... - .-. .. -.- . / .. -. - --- / - .... . .. .-. / . -.-- . ... .-.-.- / -.-. .... . -.-. -.- / ..- -. -.. . .-. -. . .- - .... / .-- .... .- - . ...- . .-. / -.-- --- ..- / -.-. .- -. --..-- / - .... . .-. . / -- .- -.-- / -... . / ... --- -- . - .... .. -. --. / .-- .- .. - .. -. --. / ..-. --- .-. / -.-- --- ..- .-.-.-
870. Yorum: 3rd watch. Saw this in a theater originally. Still holding up beautifully. Craftily constructed, beautifully shot. Insightful, sad, funny, strange. Very pleasant watch. Is it better than Memories of Murder? What the hell do I know?
871. Yorum: 
872. Yorum: movie of the decade movie of the century movie of my entire life
873. Yorum: MASTERPIECE.
Parasite is well written. Funny. Stressful. Thrilling. Intoxicating. Incredible. Terrific. Brilliant. It's about social discrepancy between the rich and the poor. And yeah the title "Parasite" perfectly captures what this movie is all about. Just believe me, the hype is real !! You will laugh your ass off and later you might hold tight to your seat.
What an incredibly good film, such brilliance. It's hard to put into words
PLOT:5/5
PACING:5/5
ACTING:5/5
CINEMATOGRAPHY:5/5
ENDING:5/5
OVERALL: 10/10
874. Yorum: Black and White edition.
Parasite is a fascinating film about the ever growing class divide we face ourselves in globally. It's certainly a choice to present the lower class family as the titular parasites, but it's ultimately the film's point, the rich may be condescendingly aloof, but that the poor have been left to turn on each other to stay afloat. Supposedly a black comedy, but honestly for me, too insane and morbidly chilling to laugh about. Even coming to this movie as comparatively late as I have, I'm beyond glad I was able to go in cold, this movie was definitely unpredictable and kept me on edge.
I'd rented this via Apple and they didn't mention anything about it being the black and white version, but I'm genuinely glad I got to see it that way. It feels like it adds another layer of morbidity to the film. Some of the exterior shots in town, especially around the flood feel like something out of the universal horror era. I'll absolutely have to check out the colour version, but to be honest, part of me feels like I'd be more content sticking with the black and white.
875. Yorum: "Analisando essa cadeia hereditária 
Quero me livrar dessa situação precária
Onde o rico cada vez fica mais rico
E o pobre cada vez fica mais pobre
E o motivo todo mundo já conhece
É que o de cima sobe e o de baixo desce”
bom xibom, xibom bombom
876. Yorum: When I first saw this, I was blown away. I had never seen anything like it but a few months past and I thought it was just the typical first viewing blues but my god, I was not disappointed this time. I’m so glad I rewatched it.
877. Yorum: Fifth viewing.
I'm craving some peaches and ram-don.
878. Yorum: I may not have loved this AS much as most people did, but obviously it's pretty fantastic. Bong Joon-Ho is great and once again shows he's somewhat in a league of his own, even if just for his signature "genre-mashing" style of writing/filmmaking.
One moment you're laughing (you're actually doing that a lot, if I HAD to put it in a box, I'd call this a dark comedy (but the thing is, you don't have to, so it really doesn't matter)), the next moment you're gasping or just holding your breath because there's some sincerely good, tense set pieces. Plus, towards the end, it actually has quite a bit of heart to it. <3
As per ushe with Bong, you can read all kinds of social commentary into the story. Even though stuff like that is often somewhat lost on me, but obviously there's something going here with class, and wealth, and what not. Fortunately not as on the nose as in for example Snowpiercer, and the movie still works perfectly fine if you just take it at face value.
So yeah, greatly enjoyed this one, will definitely go back for another watch at some time.
879. Yorum: Rich people... No creases on them.
It all gets ironed out. Money is an iron. Those creases all get smoothed out.
The 2020 Oscar Best Picture field has got an uphill climb trying to match the quality of last year's winner. Parasite works on so many levels. Impossible to categorize, but packed to the gills with economic and social commentary, humor, tension and drama. Beautifully designed, stunningly photographed, utterly captivating, and OH so metaphorical! I'm finally moving this up to five stars. Very Highly Recommended.
Streaming now on Hulu.
Added to: Oscar Best Pictures Ranked, Director Bong
880. Yorum: Somehow I went into this movie blind, knowing literally nothing about the plot or anything besides that.
And I am so glad I did. 
Woo wee.
881. Yorum: It's the same film as the first time I saw it, yet I could feel something different as I pressed play on Parasite this time around. Something palpable, like it carried a different weight post-Oscars rather than just prior to the award ceremony when it was the underdog that surely wouldn't bust through as the first foreign film ever to win the top prize. It occurred to me how unfair this was, to view the same work of art in a different light simply because it received recognition that elevated it even higher than simply a work acclaimed critically and the first picture out of Korea to ever receive a nomination from the Academy, which is remarkable if you consider their rich history of cinema. I couldn't help but think of the box office success Parasite has received, specifically since Oscar night, with so many people seeking it out knowing that it had just swept the major categories of Original Screenplay, Director and Picture. Such lofty expectations created by the award season narrative, to sit in a theater not just expecting good nor great but the best. The good news is, if there is a film out there to rise to such expectations for an audience, a film that truly has something for everyone as it pleases both on a surface level and also with so much to say regarding income inequality and class warfare, Bong Joon-Ho's Parasite is that picture. For me, with this second viewing cementing its place firmly, it truly was the best picture of 2019.
The opening shot of the film establishes where the Kim family stands in both a societal and literal sense, as the camera pans down from a set of windows which sit at ground level to a young man named Ki-woo Kim sitting in an apartment below. After a bit of dialogue that tells us everything we need to know regarding the economic situation of this family, as they search desperately for a location in their home that can access free WiFi, the patriarch of the Kim's (played brilliantly as usual by Song Kang-ho) spots a stink bug and flicks it away in disgust, and is welcome to the fumigators outside filling their home with a cloud of toxicity because, in their own words, "Kill these stink bugs" and "Too many stink bugs these days", which unbeknownst to them in this moment symbolizes their place in the class construct of society. To so many that both literally and figuratively reside above the Kim's, they are nothing more than stink bugs.
As previously stated and known to pretty much anyone who has either seen or knows even the basic construct of Parasite, it's a film about economic inequality and class, but it isn't as blatantly simple as a statement that rich people are evil and disregard or mistreat the poor. What we are seeing with this story is the disconnect between the upper and lower class when their worlds come together, in this case the Park family hiring the Kims as their help, although obviously this happens through manipulation and deceit from the Kims and the Park family has no idea the team they assembled are a family at all, which is wonderfully entertaining in the film, perfectly written and also a fascinating example of the desperation you find in those that are poverty stricken existing in a world in which their only option is to eat their own to try to stay afloat, a system designed in which some may have to do unethical and unfortunate things in order to try to catch up let alone get ahead. To the Park family, hiring people to be their help is just an expense, and they likely even feel they are doing a good thing, paying them a solid wage and believing they are treating their workers like family, yet when faced with a housekeeper stricken with a terrible illness they quickly remove and replace her and don't look back, all the while not knowing and seemingly not caring about the plight of the former housekeeper and her actual family. She was family until she wasn't, flicked away like a stink bug. Whether they are simply blind to the challenges of those beneath them or truly do not care is almost irrelevant as both are egregious, as ignorance is not an acceptable excuse to those struggling to survive.
I couldn't help but notice that at almost exactly the halfway point of Parasite, literally almost to the second, the twist of the story is revealed. I question whether that was coincidental or another example of sublime construction by Bong Joon-Ho, to have the first half of the film dabble with such playfulness and comedic bits with the subtext to the story always present, only to so bluntly hit the audience over the head with such a literal representation of the poor underneath the wealthy. We exit the clean, shiny aesthetic of the Park home to find the camera heading down ugly, dimly lit green tinted walls and that's when we find out the secret of what Parasite is all about.
What is so exciting about the production design of Parasite is how on the nose it all is but that transparency is brilliant. Some of the trappings of income inequality are subtle and nuanced, but a lot of the struggles are far more apparent in the real world. A lot of the world around us are drowning beneath those living so comfortably that they don't even have to dip their toes in the water. When the Kim family heads home in the driving rain and shot after shot after shot features a different staircase lit ominously as they continue to descend further and further, it's like they have entered an entirely different, utterly surreal world from where they just came from. That's how it actually feels to be left behind in society.
The final shot of the film is exactly like the first, a different backdrop outside as this time we see falling snow and the blanket it leaves behind but the windows are the same and the angle we see out of them is identical, along with the camera pan downward. Fortunes seemingly changed at times but in the end the result is the same. A young man named Ki-woo Kim living beneath the world after experiencing so much loss and trauma, dreaming of a future at the top. The opening moments after this shot at the beginning are filled with such a comedic energy despite their circumstances, but the final identical shot is a tragedy. Sounds about right for so many in this world.
882. Yorum: I watched this with my Grandparents when it got to the credits my Grampy saw Bong Joon-Hoo and said "Bong Joojoo that's a funny name.".
Edit: My Nana did not understand the movie. She said she felt really sorry for Mr. Park.
Best Picture Winners Ranked
883. Yorum: I'm not lying, this might be the greatest film I've ever seen. Like I'm finding it a hard time to put into words how amazed I am by this movie. Everything about it is so well executed that it makes me reconsider almost every other film I've given a 5 star rating. Just a truly unique take on the social class structure storyline with such well written characters. Both families are clearly defined and unlikable without ever being too much. The cinematography is gorgeous, so many shots that are stuck in my head and the amount of scenes that impressed me with how long they went on with no cuts is too much to count on my hands. Loved the soundtrack, great piano pieces and knows how to hit emotional beats with the sinister undertones throughout. The themes of the story are very much present all throughout, leaving me thinking quite a bit on how much money changes someone and how events can leave a impact on people differently depending on their upbringing / status. The ending left me with my mouth hanging for a good 20 minutes in awe. Just a perfect film and one I want to put right back on and rewatch already. 5/5 perfection and has definitely felt like something that has changed me. I highly recommend everyone see this at least once (and I know I'm very late to this party) and honestly think it'll be a while until I see something of this calibur.
884. Yorum: 
885. Yorum: Концовка не понравилась, не стал смотреть, а в целом фильм неплохой.
886. Yorum: How is this STILL so good and how am I STILL picking up on new stuff? God-tier, once-in-a-generation filmmaking.
887. Yorum: Park So-dam if you read this im free on Thursday night and would like to hang out. Please respond to this and then hang out with me on Thursday night when I’m free
888. Yorum: seeing this on an imax screen felt like I was watching it for the first time again. god bless bong joon ho and the contributions he has made to film. we are not worthy.
889. Yorum: In the theatre when it ended, a woman started to applaud and screamed "I don't care! It was so good!"
890. Yorum: wowowow
891. Yorum: Reviewed on Cinema Eclectica.
Hype is real. It used to be that when a non-Anglophone director worked in Hollywood then went back home, that was essentially an admission of failure, but both Park Chan-Wook and now Bong Joon-Ho have successfully kicked their careers up a notch by returning to South Korea and turning in something even stronger, more accessible yet more daring, than their still impressive English language films. Watching Parasite you can't help but think the success is merited. It's as tangy, nasty, formally precise, witty and twisty as anything he's done, and his shout-out to Scorsese in his Best Director acceptance speech feels like a man accepting the baton.
Criticism that it isn't empowering enough to its working-class characters isn't exactly wrong, just misguided. Bong doesn't make films to comfort or uplift and this is no exception. What he is saying is that the class system is an unwinnable game in which even the people who seem to have gotten ahead are made less human by their victory, and even the people who seem to be striving to escape it are tainted by their acceptance of it. It's not a realist film - although it is worth noting Bong was partly inspired by the story of the Papin sisters, the basis for Jean Genet's classic play The Maids - but it is very real.
892. Yorum: part of my 16x4 — Directors' list;
spoiler alert.
I was really afraid that watching Parasite after most people I know and after all the hype I would: 1) not understand one fucking shit about it, 2) not like it and 3) (worst case scenario) not understand it, not like it and don't want to try to. Happily none of this happened and I am... well, speechless.
I'm reading so many articles about it, watching videos, doing the journalist-work that I always do whenever I love a movie I just watched; and I think this one has enough commentaries and theories, so I shouldn't really say anything because nothing that comes out of here is new at this point. I just wanted to say that I'm a huge fan of non-happy endings. Huge fan. But this time... Man, this time I wished it had one. The class struggle is tough. Whatever this is, doesn't get easier; anywhere. That's... that's sad.
PS.: Letterboxd please stop sending me morse code it's 3:30am, I'm having cramps and I'm SCARED.
893. Yorum: Infinitely more fun when you’re in a full theatre of people who have zero idea what is going to happen, and getting to hear all the gasps, “oh no!”s and claps. 
This movie is literally so perfect it’s actually unfair that other films have to compete with it
894. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho’s black comedy thriller about an unemployed family who find themselves getting involved in an unexpected incident. In Korean with English subtitles.
The story concerns voracity and class judgement which loom the brand new formed interdependent relationship between the rich Park family and the penniless Kim fraternity.
Song Kang-ho, Jang Hye-jin, Choi Woo-shik and Park So-dam all give good performances in their respective roles as Ki-taek, Chung-sook, Ki-woo and Ki-jeong, the four members of the impoverished Kim family.
Elsewhere, there are fine performances to be had from Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Jung Ji-so and Jung Hyun-joon in their respective roles as Dong-ik, Yeon-gyo, Da-hye and Da-song, the four associates of the wealthy Park family involved.
The direction from Joon Ho is very good because he allows the facial expressions to be seen to a strong effect throughout, while also keeping a mixed atmosphere happening as well.
The script is written to a decent standard by the director and Han-Jin won as they make the movie good to follow and creates some humour too, meaning the movie never take itself too seriously. But even when the movie isn’t funny, you can still understand what is happening, because the narrative is definitely there from beginning to end.
The camera stands out best in terms of the technical aspects, because it makes good use of the locations and also captures the tense and funny moments well, which get the edge-of-the-seat status.
There is one scene in the film that is disturbing to watch, but it is part of the story.
At the time of writing, Parasite got Golden Globe nominations for Best Director (Bong Joon Ho), Best Screenplay - Motion Picture (Bong Joon Ho) and Best Motion Picture – Foreign Language. The former two nominations are rare for a foreign language film.
Not only this, but Parasite has also been selected as the South Korean entry for the Academy Award for Best International Feature Film and also made a little bit of history by becoming the first film from South Korea to win the Palme D’Or at the Cannes Film Festival.
The only criticism I have would be the pace, as this can be a little slow at times, so I don’t think the duration needed to be 132 minutes long.
Overall, despite the sometimes-slow pace and little too long duration, Parasite is a decent South Korean black comedy thriller, due to the good performances, direction, script, mixed atmosphere and some humour.
895. Yorum: I mean, it's a Bong Joon-Ho movie alright- social commentary, formal precision, hairpin genre turns, cartoonish excess juxtaposed with brutal violence, the works. His sense of humor isn't 100% aligned with mine (although it hits more often than it misses, especially once the script finds its groove), and this is both entirely too obvious and overly self-aware ("so metaphorical", etc.), but I can't say there were many moments where I wasn't having fun- I'd rather be watching People Under The Stairs, but that's true of most movies, so I won't hold that against Bong & company. None of his flicks have had much sticking power for me, and I don't think this is the one that will, but it certainly further convinces me that eventually he and I will see perfectly eye to eye (Memories of Murder's my guess). All the same, Parasite's certainly a blast while it lasts.
896. Yorum: when i got my tickets the woman at the register was like “3 tickets for paradise” and you know what? she was right
897. Yorum: 
898. Yorum: Turns out the biggest parasite of all was capitalism.
It's not a conflict for people who live underground, get pissed over and have to hustle to simply get food on the table - like they're existences mattered less than those above, or worse, don't even register at all - whether or not to seize the opportunity to make a living at the expense of obscene accumulators of wealth. Society is pretty much structured around that exact process, only with the players in opposite positions (and it's not exactly a fair match). Having that covered, Bong Joon-ho can fully devote his immense talents for genre filmmaking on the 'how' of it all, the intricate mechanics and consequent genius writing/blocking of the actions taking place at the house. While that's happening, there's a constant and, more subdued (although far from hidden) preparation for the somewhat shocking developments in the story, which are curiously finally 'earned', so to speak, in a stretch that comes immediately after the most intensely exciting part of the picture, as if serving as the definite reminder of what all that entertainment ultimately comes down to. Remarkable at every level and miraculous that it plays just as well to a multiplex crowd as it did at Cannes.
899. Yorum: Director Bong's best movie. I saw it last night, and can't stop thinking about it. I will definitely be watching a second time. It feels like there have been a lot of movies from around the world in the last decade circling similar themes and stories, but PARASITE drops the mic.
900. Yorum: When viewing a film like this, the less you know about it, the better.
Parasite, a hugely deserving winner of this year’s Palme d’Or, brings all the aces out of its director Bong Joon-ho. Unpredictable, purely original, and purposeful in all technical elements, this film got it all. The film follows the story of two different families whose lives become entangled out of pure survival. Mr. Bong becomes a cinematic magician who pulls every trick with another in such effortless manner. The genre mutation, twisted narratives, and tonal changes are some of Mr. Bong’s filmmaking obsessions, and he did it so consistently, smoothly and convincingly in Parasite.
Besides Mr. Bong’s great experimentation on styles, shots, and writing—he is also a director’s actor who perfectly calibrates his actors’ performances to a particular style or tone. His great attention to lead Song Kang-ho for instance, is a masterclass and in turn Mr. Song gives a blistering performance as the family’s patriarch.
There’s a lot going on in the film but I better not spoil to everybody. The film is a cruel examination on South Korean society and the class division that it ensues. But the great thing like with all of Mr. Bong’s films is the universality of his themes and in Parasite every emotional beat has depth and it’s quite convincing.
Overall, Parasite is Bong Joon-ho’s best film of his career and certainly a benchmark for the entire cinema of South Korea. You have to see it to believe it as one of the year's best films.
901. Yorum: I have some opinions about this movie. don't judge, just hear me out.
1. I DON'T EVEN KNOW WHAT TO BEGIN WITH THIS IS PURE PERFECTION! A LITERAL MASTERPIECE! PEAK CINEMA!
2. perfection doesn't really exist, but this movie does. and as a society we should really be thankful for that. thank you bong joonho, u a gem.
3. I don't believe anyone who doesn't like this movie. like what are you? uncultured swine?
ok that's all thanks for reading. have a good day/night.
902. Yorum: “it’s quite cruel and sad, but I thought it was being real and honest with the audience. you know and i know — we all know that this kid isn’t going to be able to buy that house. i just felt that frankness was right for the film, even though it’s sad.” - bong joon-ho
: the director of this movie making it clear that in the end the son would not be able to buy a house like that, and would spend years knowing that his father would suffer and rot in that dark underground with almost no water and food, while a rich family lived happily above his head.
903. Yorum: I mean what more can you say other than it’s a masterpiece. This is Bong’s magnum opus, a gold standard of genre-bending and the perfect gateway into Korean cinema. Perfectly directed, well-written and so goddamn funny and also a surprisingly terrifying social thriller when you least expect it. It rules, man.
904. Yorum: So! Today is my birthday, and I decided to watch the popular not English movie, and like, it was KINDA OK, I guess. Not as good as Spider-Man 3
9.5/10 - 2019 Ranked - My Favourites List
Also I wanna thank all of you since it's my birthday, and I'm gonna do it one by one. Why? I'm stupid. This is in alphabetical so it's FAIR. If you follow after this sorry but I'm not adding you, and if you unfollow me after this, I'll be sad. There's 209 at the moment, so let's do this!
Thank you
0o-Ravenwingz-o0, 1% of monsters, Aaron, A celestial moist being, ACritic, Aden Robertson, alch_bass, Alex E, alex giovanni, amanda >:), Andrew Hans, AnomilisaOverlooked, aprilCool, ARRYEII, AsdfBAtman, Ava, Basak, Bea, bella :), Ben Abraham, Ben Collins, Benjamin Green, BestVista, Billy Brown, BiScreenwriter, Bjorn Broekman, BlakeMower, BlakeVonSextron, Blaze the action junkie, Bloodygoodjune, Bobby, boyswillbeboys, BrandonKman, Braymitch01, Bringit, caityn1313, camerican, Chad Anderson, Chipz, Christian Otten, CinemaVoid, Cinementality, Cinephile 2387, conkim19, Cosmixx, Dan. Darla, DB8 Club, DeAngelo del Vickers II, Del Webster, dovidguo, DreamScape40, Drew Hughes, Dylan Gorzen, Dylan Hastie, Emmanuel Cool, Emily Routhier, emma, Endgame, -M-, Ethan99, Ethan Dunne, Ethxn, Explorer Of Movies, fabi, faceless_entity, FaresNagy, FilmAlliance, film_brogamer, First Name Last Name, fischers196, FlixReviews, FoofDeckman, Frandi Peralta, Frollo is (not) a Baggins, Gabriel Revok, Geo, gracie, graham, guguzino, Harry, HoistInHW, Hope D., Ianshy05, Ibrahim Mawed, Isaac Patente, Jackson, jack Winchester, Jacob, jacobstertz, Jake, Jake_The_Snake, Jalentheguy, Jami, Janmarkus01, Jason Clark, JB, jeremy leblanc, Joe's (pizza), jonas, Jordxn_nor, Josef, joseluisruizcla, Joseph Hagan, Joseph Nguyen (Jericho), JustxCaffyHomz, Kane Vallance, Kappelen, katie, Kaua Barreto, KazooBro24, Kynan, LicenseRevoked, Loud Dusk, mady, Maria, Mario, Marshall On Film, MartyK0015mp, Mason M. Rainone, matteopolletta, Mathew loller, Mattias Zenky, MattWWatches, Megan, Melissa, meticulous, MfourMovies, Michael501, Michael, Michelle B, molly, moviefreak666, MoviesFan123, mrAlexPates, Nathan Pigg, Nick C. Hynson, Nick J, Nicolas Carrillo, Noah Biondi, NothingRevealed, Nova, OliverJ02, Ori Herzl, O_SeRKaN_O, parley78, Patrik, Patrizia Man, Pinkmonkeybird7, Prison Mikey, PT99, Raymond Laurens, ReVision, Ricardo Franco, Rich_Writes, RickyBoby, RobertRiley, Robyn, RoccoReviews29, rose, salma, Salvador Cortes, sami, Sam Meltzer, sam, Sam Thompson, savanna, scott easterbrook, Scott,sebastianbaceda, Shadow_Blade, shawnslaught, she/her, space1999, SpongebobAndPat, stef_367, swilliamson3, swiss1, Sylester, Tak1408, TheAlterEgo, The_BC, theburnettshowm, TheDoubleD, The Film Master 91, TheKingOfComedy, THE KING, therhyswelsh, yuan zissou, thiccthanos idk, THUNDER6464, Toby Vaughn, toni24, truereliance, Typhoon2000, Usernamme (Red Shirts), vaygha, Venom2, Vidyuth Mahesh, Walker Rutter, We Watched This Movie Podcast, WilliamLane, wiseguy76, Wyatt Carter, youtubememeskk, ZombieTrex, Burak, Z, and wahabb
That was long. Thanks to everyone again. If I misspelled your name then boohoo
Time to watch Mandalorian
905. Yorum: Really good premises worry me a little bit. When someone tells me that I need to go into a film blind, more often than not, it's because the brilliance of the film lies in the premise most of all. Surely that's not a bad thing on principle, but then we as viewers can conflate stellar premises and stellar films. If I needed a good series-of-events to describe to friends and develop hives around on Twitter, I'd read more literature. And I should, I'm an English major. But I don't. Film is a lot more than the premise, which is why descriptions of cleverness in a story sets me off. If all you worry about in film discussion is not spoiling the film, in my dumb bird opinion, the film might not be worth spoiling. Cool, you have a good idea for a film. Write a fuckin novel. Or compose a conceptual art rock record with spoken-word interludes. If I cared about premise, I'd be one of those guys asking 'what's the point?' to anything further left-field than Fight Club. A bad premise probably won't ruin your film. A good premise absolutely can.
Parasite does have some missteps in that regard. And I say missteps, as opposed to steps not at all taken, largely because Parasite is capital-A ambitious (except I lowercased it when typing the word, because such emphasis would require me to think over my reviews for more than a moment, let alone edit them.) A four star film can be the a three or three-and-a-half star film that worked its way up on what it has, or it can be a five or four-and-a-half star film that can't quite go the full distance. In that sense, four stars for Parasite might be considered strict, and four stars for Wonder Woman might seem lenient. That's the trick with star ratings, but unlike some of my peers, I could never disavow them entirely. It's my final statement, in case my actual writing isn't clear enough, leaning in one direction or the other. The stars are the final say, for now at least.
On to the main point, that being Parasite having been built more for the premise than anything else. I have seen this many times in good or great movies (Baby Driver is a prime example, and I still like that movie a lot), but more often than not, in good or bad movies, I think of it as a flaw. Parasite is really clear on film structure when it comes to pacing, even to the point of shortening or lengthening scenes to a degree I considered kind of unnatural or awkward. It all feels constructed to fit the story as a whole, rather than letting those individual scenes flourish in ways you otherwise wouldn't have allowed. I fear a longer runtime would have had Bong going too self-indulgent, but I also wonder if it would have allowed him to break convention and play around even more with tension, humor, sadness, and especially atmosphere. A film this strict on pace loses out on that, I feel, and I only really catch it in glimmers here.
That rigidity does come at a cost, despite not destroying the film and its merits entirely, in the same way other flaws have the potential to do. Again, I like a lot of films that stick solely to the plot and its expected pace, but the ones that achieve that desired effect from their attempts are the exceptions. I'd argue other directors that I was reminded of throughout Parasite knew better to diverge from a formula and still feel cohesive and interesting overall. Yorgos Lanthimos in his disturbances (though I would take Parasite over Dogtooth, personally), Edward Yang in his contemporary character explorations, Michelangelo Antonioni in finding an emptiness in the spaces of capitalism... Parasite has rightfully earned comparisons to these guys through its many merits, but I don't feel it goes above-and-beyond in that particular respect. And sticking to convention when going for a premise this out-of-the-box rebellious, it ultimately isn't as satisfying.
You might say it's harsh for me to throw out two of the four best directors of all time (and also Lanthimos, heh) in comparisons to a film that came out just this year. And to that, I say... Parasite is #1 on Letterboxd. That isn't a choice by Bong or his crew, so no points off for that of course, but clearly the standard has been considered by others already. Some have argued it deserves its position because it's better than The Godfather. I personally disagree on that front, but I also disagree that canon should just be a game of first place versus second place. Even if Parasite were a more appropriate pick for best film of all time (barring recency bias, which may or may not come into play eventually), would we be saying the same if Harakiri were then made second place? Or Seven Samurai? 12 Angry Men? Come and See? I would go further, but Into the Spiderverse is at #8, and that's... that's a whole different argument. If you are to take that top spot, you have to stand such comparisons, just as The Godfather did. I don't think Parasite will be as stoic to the argument with time. I don't know if anyone has been making that argument, and after all, it has been less than a year. But still, that incredible number of views, that 4.6 rating, would it hold up if we up and switched film rating websites in ten years time? Forrest Gump is #12 on the IMDb Top 250, and can't even crack the Top 250 on Letterboxd. Will time dull the hype of Parasite?
Maybe. But in saying that, I wouldn't want this film to go away. The Palme d'Or seems reasonable, I suppose. And looking back, comparing this film to Forrest Gump is kind of me waiting to get yelled at. It might have that same itch at the back of my brain, but one's a good film, and the other... is Forrest Gump. Sorry.
Parasite's a great film. It took me so long to say because of its baggage, as if great films need to be criticized before they can be further complimented, but I don't know, I don't want you guys feeling too echoed out on this film's greatness. I would say in my opinion, but it's a bit harder to find dissenting opinions to offset mine. Shoutout, uhh... Neil Bahadur. It's only healthy to be critical, so I wouldn't be writing so much if I just agreed with everybody else. That being said, I'd also be kind of dishonest if I didn't address what really works about Parasite.
A brutalizing idea, working its way up the staircase (sorry) of conflict, very gradually but never lulling too far in-between. I have my issues with that method, but if nothing else, it keeps a viewer hooked. Those early stages are incredible in their own right, and while the final steps may feel distant, there are clever ways in which they make connections.
I like this idea of battling over space through class; there's a lot of irony to even just the image, let alone what it offers. Again, I think Antonioni did it better, but it's also a different type of take. It doesn't negate Bong's comments unless you as a viewer already consider Bong's take to be deeply flawed. Some say that of Antonioni already. I think they both work on a surface-level, Antonioni going a bit deeper philosophically, but also keep in mind that I am indeed a dumb bird with no real world knowledge. If there is some awful irony to Parasite's comments on capitalism that ruins its points entirely, I am not smart enough to understand them. Maybe Jon M. can live rent-free in my mind when I speak of this film in the same way he does when I speak of Alfonso Cuarón's Roma. And I like Roma.
Most of all, I really love the performances. Balancing genres can be tricky not only for the director, but for the actors as well. That is why I'm so grateful that everybody here, especially the four leads, completely nail that middle-ground. When your delivery is halfway between farcical and terrified, without feeling ungenuine on either end, that's an accomplishment for any actor. I can't think of many other recent examples that do this as well as this whole cast does, and it allows the film's darker turns to not feel as ugly or as boring. That poster had me on edge, but luckily it never feels too cruel or depraved in a meaningless way. A lot of that comes down to those performances, half in some lost metaphor, half in their own sincere humanity. And knowing the context now, I think the poster's spectacular.
That is the deciding factor for me on Parasite's achievements meaning anything or not. It does extend a bit beyond its ultimate point, willing to add smaller details, willing to let the characters exist beyond just pieces to a game; it all might come together the same way, but having that breathing room makes all the difference in me being interesting in where the film is leading me. I might not like the functions of the film being as regimented as they are, but its odd sense of specificity and humanity amidst its criticism, it feels thoughtful in addition to being simply "clever." Parasite can be more than its final point, with that honed-in focus still allowing cool digressions in our periphery, other things to admire and to care about. It strikes harder when it convinces you to care by means other than its own brilliance. I like its sentimental side. I like its humorous side. I like its very briefly terrifying side, which might just be that one scene of the kid eating cake, a shot that will never leave my puffin brain for as long as I live (which is thankfully not long. Puffin lifespans are very short.) I like Parasite so much because the premise alone isn't the start and end to every conversation I will have about it. There is more to film than its most evident purpose. Parasite is a cool idea. Thankfully, it is a good film too.
906. Yorum: The hype is deserved. In my opinion, “Parasite” is Bong Joon-ho´s greatest films so far and one of the best movies of the year. The less you know about it, the bigger is the impact, so I won´t tell you much about the story. What I can tell you is that “Parasite” is a moving, entertaining, and thought-provoking tale about class differences, family, morality, and survival, and that it is full of twists, turns, and tonal shifts, mixes many genres, and makes you feel every emotion imaginable. It basically is a mixture of a Park Chan-wook mystery thriller, a Hirokazu Kore-eda family drama, and Bong Joon-ho´s trademark humor and social commentary.
The whole film looks beautiful and has breathtaking cinematography, stunning sets, and tight editing, resulting in a great pacing. The screenplay is intelligent and engaging and Joon-ho´s direction is even more masterful than ever. He seems to be in total control of every aspect of his movie.
The biggest strength of the film are the characters. All of them are complex, layered, and fascinating. They are quirky, likable and have great chemistry with each other and although they also do several morally questionable things, you always see where they are coming from. You quickly become very emotionally invested in them, which makes the ending so impactful. The acting is fantastic as well and it is hard to name a standout, although I would choose Park So-dam, who plays the daughter of the main family
“Parasite” deserves all the praise it got. It is an exciting and powerful cinematic experience and I hope that it will be recognized during the coming award season. You should definitely watch it but be prepared to think about this film for a while.
907. Yorum: Imagine waking up in the middle of the night and seeing some strangers eating in your living room
908. Yorum: I really enjoyed Parasite when it first came out but felt something was missing due to my own expectations of where the story would go, but thankfully on this rewatch I can now appreciate the movie for what it is which is no more or less than a great fucking movie.
On the surface the movie works due to an enjoyable cast of characters who get put through so many twists and turns in both comedic and shocking ways. Seeing them deal with these events is engaging to watch, but beyond the simplicity of the premise the entire movie is dripping with deeper meanings and subtext that enhances the themes without coming across as preachy which was an issue I had with Snowpiercer from the same director.
This is a movie that warrants repeat viewings to fully appreciate it for what it is and what is has to say. A well deserved Best Picture winner. Jessica, Only Child, Illinois, Chicago 💕
909. Yorum: writing my critical theory final paper on this movie.
910. Yorum: 
911. Yorum: “Hoje o céu tá tão azul e sem poluição, graças a toda aquela chuva de ontem, a chuva foi uma verdadeira benção.”
Terceira vez assistindo um dos maiores atos do cinema, uma montanha russa de emoções que mostra a pobreza nua e crua. A diferença de classes sociais é algo que embrulha o estômago e ver que tem pessoas que precisam viver com o mínimo do mínimo é extremamente triste.
Bong Jon-ho foi gigante e construiu uma obra com várias camadas e todas contadas com maestria. 
“Ricos tem escadas que sobem, enquanto pobres só descem.”
912. Yorum: Absolutely brilliant. It was amazing to finally revisit this film since seeing it for the first time in cinemas. It's been long enough that I forgot some of the events that transpire, but I also got to revel on the excellence I did remember. Everything is operating at such a high level and it's all so finely tuned. Some of the standouts for me include the stunning direction, cinematography, production design and the script, which was funnier than I remembered. All the performances as well are so damn great. The casting is perfection. I think Cho Yeo-jeong as the Park mother was my favourite, she's hilarious. Exploration of the themes are also done so well. For instance, how rainfall was later seen as a blessing for the wealthy Park family, while the Kims are trudging through chest high sewer water losing what little they had. And they had to show up for work the next day! Insane. A modern masterpiece by Bong Joon-ho. Respect!
913. Yorum: Last movie of 2022 and going out with a big bang! This is so captivating from start to finish and it’s straight up *chefs kiss*! Trying to rank most shitty characters in this was a true task lol.
Happy New Year everyone! Thanks to all for the support and here’s to a great new year filled with tons of new films!
914. Yorum: Turns out the real parasite were the friends we made along the way..... 
Parasite just hit the 1 mil total watches milestone today on Letterboxd (the 4th movie to hit the milestone and the quickest to do so) so I decided to rewatch the movie in celebration! The editing in this flows flawlessly, especially that whole “peach fuzz” sequence. I’m sad I’ll never get to experience watching this in the theater for the first time again.
915. Yorum: Films Watched in 2020 - Film 400
2019 Films Ranked 
First time watching this out of cinemas, third time overall and I have to say, it more than holds up. An absolute masterclass in film making. It should’ve received acting nominations at the Oscars as it definitely earns them.
916. Yorum: A movie not just about rich vs poor or inequality, but about capitalism and what it does to people's bodies and souls. Not sure what to say about it that hasn't already been said much better by others. One of the best films of the last decade. Brilliant.
917. Yorum: There is no fucking way this movie can live up to the hype right? That was mindset going in and I was absolutely blown away. It's so hard to even describe what this movie is or why it's so fucking good. Simply put, it's just mesmerizing. All I could do was think about this movie and it's characters for the entire time. Just wondering what the hell is coming next. I have to rewatch it to make sure I'm not crazy.
918. Yorum: There's a lot that I feel like I can ramble on about in regards to what Bong Joon-ho achieves with Parasite after having already seen the film a total of six times at this point, but I feel like I'd only be repeating myself or whatever other people have already said better.
But I think it's a testament to how great a film Bong Joon-ho has made when you're already considering how accessible it is, even to audiences that wouldn't normally seek out foreign language films, without sacrificing any of its own artistry - especially when the film has a message as important as this.
Rich people are parasites in our world, shrouding themselves in their own privilege - but the people they stand on top of are also the ones they cannot live without. Maybe it's a message that we've heard numerous times but it truly bears repeating.
I have a more detailed review here, if you want to read it.
919. Yorum: Now I know what all the fuss is about!!!
920. Yorum: 2019 Ranked
Australia actually got this in cinemas as early as July and it was a brilliant experience so once it returned for encore screenings I couldn’t wait to see it again.
I loved it even more this time, so much so that I’m bumping up my rating to the full five stars that I think it deserves and moving it to the number 1 place in my 2019 rankings.
This time I could really view the story and all of its characters as a whole which is hard to do the first time due to it’s large scope of characters, themes and ideas in general.
The house is one of the best sets I’ve ever seen. It actually becomes a character of its own which is an amazing feat.
At the end of the day, nothing I can say about it can do it justice but I’m in complete admiration of Bong Joon-ho and think he is genuinely one of the best artists of the past decades, and it saddens me that he is not a household name.
921. Yorum: If I had all this, I would be kinder.
Bong Joon Ho‘s Parasite lithely walks a slick, impossibly intelligent tight rope between uproarious social satire and pulse-pounding thriller. It’s a living Rubik’s Cube—with bricks colored in hues of painfully relevant class struggle—that never allows itself to be fully solved, even when you finally think you’ve got it all figured out (and thank goodness for that). Once it ropes you in, you’re left both ravenously hungry for more and functionally devastated over the wealth you’ve been given. Every member of the ensemble delivers, every moment is so perfectly calibrated for maximum impact—be it hilarity or horror or utmost sorrow—and it’s something to be deeply cherished. Cinema at its finest, in its most exquisitely original form. I’d kill to experience it for the first time again, a hundred times in a row, immediately.
100
922. Yorum: My old school (Illinois State University) getting namedropped in this movie... rather unanticipated by me.
Those that read my scathing review of Terminator: Dark Fate may wonder why I went and saw a dumb Hollywood product that I suspected would be dumb when there are independent movies I could be checking out instead... touche, I say. Central Florida is not like Los Angeles or New York... but various indie/foreign movies usually don't require too long a drive to see. As I mentioned while talking about Dark Fate, some of those pictures do come off as pretentious and even a little bit intolerable to me. Snowpiercer was a big letdown for me, yet The Host was a very good Bong Joon-ho movie so I was hoping I would agree with most film fans and think this was worth checking out theatrically. As you can see with my highest of scores, no one has to get out the pitchforks and hang me in the town square! Those elsewhere around the world, it was only this past Friday that Parasite made it to mainstream cineplexes in the United States and is in more than select locations. I understand that many people got to see this months ago.
I never even saw a trailer for this so I only went into the picture hearing that it dealt with a pair of families, one rich and the other poor, and those two interact with each other. That is indeed correct, and I'll attempt to be vague here to avoid giving away anything important. Naturally, the poor family is desperate so they do some things to try and help themselves-this includes a few little white lies-but... unexpected complications occur. Parasite has plenty of content concerning inequality between the haves and have nots, along with capitalism in general and “fake it until you make it”... this is done as various genres are mixed in together. I'll just say that there are laughs of the satirical and dark humor variety along with some suspenseful moments and yeah, a few bloody ones also.
Perhaps Parasite is benefiting, re: that it was the first thing I viewed after experiencing something I found to be awful... be that as it may, I was very happy to see something that was unpredictable yet not ludicrous or devoid of logic... a picture where the audience can decide how they feel about the various main characters, as nothing is black or white and you can damn the rich family for being naive or not comprehending how “common folk” live... or knowing at least once that things are likely to go wrong... you just don't know when or how this will occur.
I haven't viewed all of the director's movies by any means but this is the best and favorite that I have seen; what a ride this was. I was very happy to see something original that did not insult my intelligence or was overly smug or was way too arch for me to enjoy. Everything about the movie was great, from the story and the performances to the cast and everything behind the camera; if you enjoy what Bong does or even if you want to see a story that deftly maneuvers between several different genres and can view this theatrically... Parasite is a must-see.
923. Yorum: 
924. Yorum: Nachtrag auf Deutsch: Die deutsche Synchro ist sehr gelungen, wie ich finde. Dieses Meisterwerk ist also auch synchronisiert absolut sehenswert!
925. Yorum: The word masterpiece gets thrown around so often these days that I forgot what it was like to see a real one
926. Yorum: Highest recommendation to see this movie before you know ANYTHING about it. Which makes it incredibly hard to review, actually. Bong Joon-ho's instincts for class struggle crisis points are so incredibly sharp here, but nothing, be it theme or aesthetic, steps in front of the storytelling here, as this grifter family plots to scam its way into wealth-adjacency. Brick by brick, this house gets assembled and then thrillingly, shockingly, horribly gets leveled. It's funny, pointed, and exhilarating, a daring cross-pollination where "Shoplifters" meets "Gosford Park" meets "Us." Easily one of the best of the year.
927. Yorum: Still the best film of the year! It isn't often that you get a film that manages to be hilarious, tense, tender, heartbreaking, disturbing, exciting, satisfying, and bittersweet, all at the same time, the tones balanced to perfection. A third rewatch will be had around December-January, with a short-ish analysis and to see if something better has come along.
Bong Joon-ho, RESPECT!
928. Yorum: I think the reason it's taken me so long to watch Parasite was out of fear. Specifically, fear that a film so revered and beloved by nearly everyone would end up disappointing me. What if my expectations were to become so high that the end product just wouldn’t be satisfying? But I finally said, ‘enough is enough’, sat down, and watched the whole thing. And after finally seeing this, it is certainly worth all the hype and then some. I don’t think I’ve seen a film so dedicated in its vision deliver an experience unlike any other. Nearly every element of the film combines to make a near perfect experience meant to denounce the societal constructs of class and capitalism. 
The story centers around the impoverished Kim family slowly forming what can be seen as a symbiotic (or even parasitic) relationship with the rich Park family. The Kim family members start to take positions within the Park household, whether by forging documents or forcing others out of their position. The first part of this film plays out like a high-stakes heist, with the character’s plan slowly falling into place. It’s incredibly satisfying to watch them cheat the system and try their best to attain a more suitable lifestyle.
Unfortunately, their plan doesn’t quite pan out. This relationship they’ve fostered can’t last forever, and it slowly starts to topple as the film progresses. The system keeps pushing them away from the finish line, away from their ideal lives. No matter what they do, the Kim family is cursed to live down under the rich, both figuratively and literally. It’s emblematic of a vicious cycle, where social mobility is much more myth than reality. The way this film shows us this harsh reality through its visuals and its story is awe-inspiring.
At the center of it all, we have the two sets of families. The Kim family is an absolute blast to watch. They just seem to revel in their deception and schemes. Seeing their plans come together is incredibly engaging, and seeing them comment on it later is just as good. The way they are able to manipulate the naive Park family is insanely clever. The Park family also works great in this film as an exploration of the upper class lifestyles. They are so concerned about their own good that they go to ridiculous lengths in order to feel safe in their house. But at the end of the day, they aren’t really villains in a sense. Nothing in this film is as black and white as that. The Parks are instead framed as antagonists, not because they directly harm the main characters, but because they benefit from a system that pushes the main characters down. These characters are brought to life with incredible performances, with not a single weak one.
One of the most impressive aspects of Parasite is no doubt it's brilliant set design. The film mostly takes place within the Park’s mansion, and the way the characters move around and use the environment makes for some thrilling scenes. Like the best films do with their locations, this film allows you to be able to map out this house by the end of it, because it's such an integral part of the experience. The architecture itself is also expertly designed, and feels believable, despite the extravagant nature of it all.
The technical aspects of this film also manage to astound. The orchestral score fuels the emotions of nearly every scene. It knows when to ramp up during tense situations, and it knows when to be subdued. And of course, the cinematography is top notch. Everything is framed in such a unique way that it only serves to bolster the story and characters. This film is never dull to look at. Even when what the characters are doing isn’t the most interesting, the way it's all filmed makes it engaging.
I’m honestly a little upset with myself that I didn’t check this out sooner. Parasite is such a masterpiece that not even the Academy could deny its brilliance. It tells a beautiful gripping story that manages to convey relevant commentary and themes about the current state of the world order, and those who benefit from it, and those who are screwed over by it. I’m so glad that this film has broken the barrier and has allowed mainstream audiences to finally engage with foreign cinema. I can only hope that more films can manage to push the envelope even further. But for now, Parasite stands as a shining example of a near perfect film experience, one that nearly everyone should see.
929. Yorum: remember when 2020 was good and this won best picture
930. Yorum: I don't know what are the chances that this movie will win Best Picture as much as I would really want it to tonight, but I may as well watch it again because I don't see myself ever getting tired of this movie.
We really don't deserve Bong Joon-ho.
If you are interested, I wrote a piece about why I think this deserves to win Best Picture. Give it a read over here.
UPDATE: It actually won and I'm incredibly ecstatic right now.
931. Yorum: All Films Watched in 2020, Ranked / 2019 Films, Ranked / Bong Joon-ho, Ranked / 5 Star Films
Parasite 020920 on Amazon Prime Video:
I’m already resigned to the fact that this won’t win best picture tonight even though it should.
932. Yorum: Yesterday I attended a roundtable discussion (okay, it was more a chairs-in-a-straight-line discussion) with the directors of the five films nominated for the Best Foreign Picture Golden Globe, namely Pedro Almodóvar (Pain and Glory), Bong Joon Ho (Parasite), Ladj Ly (Les Misérables), Céline Sciamma (Portrait of a Lady on Fire) and Lulu Wang (The Farewell), which made for an interesting and inspiring afternoon.
Bong Joon Ho and Céline Sciamma were my favorite people at the event (apart from Antonio Banderas, who sat two rows behind me and is so friggin' cute and boyish in person). Sciamma didn't talk much, but I just liked her vibe, there was something special about her that caught my attention. Bong Joon Ho came across as super likeable and I liked everything coming out of his mouth, and he was by far the funniest person in the round, and so I promised myself that I would make an effort to finally watch Parasite.
When asked about his objective as a filmmaker, he answered that he wants to make movies that people have fun with, that entertain them and make them laugh, but when they come home and close the door behind them and take off their clothes and step into the shower, they discover bleeding wounds all over their body that they don't know where they came from. I really liked that image, and even more so the message behind it.
Images are indeed his great strength. This is the third film of his that I've seen, apart from Mother and Snowpiercer, the latter I loved. Again he overwhelms you (presumably another one of his intentions) with so many powerful images and a rhythm that can almost be described as hypnotic. This of course has less movement to it than Snowpiercer, considering it's almost exclusively set in a single location (that house though, oh my God), and at times this even has a theatrical feel to it, but even then it is spellbinding and the pacing is always on fleek. Now I can't remember if it was him or Almódovar who said that any filmmaker working today can't help but be influenced by Hitchcock, but certain scenes definitely reminded me of good old Alfred. It also reminded me a bit of the US version of Haneke's Funny Games, both thematically and visually.
In the beginning I was worried this was gonna turn into an overly simplistic tale of "the rich are bad, the poor are good", but now I feel ashamed for underestimating Bong Joon Ho like that; it's of course much more complex and mature than that. I'm not big on satire, so at times it was a little too on the nose for my taste, but every so often there's an undeniable poetry to it all, a silence that rests on nothing but the power of an image, so it's pretty impossible not to connect to this. I have always been a sucker for symbolism, and I doubt that anybody does it better than Asian directors, which I'm sure is linked to their spirituality.
As a matter of fact it just occurred to me that a big percentage of contemporary films that I enjoyed in recent years were Asian, so maybe I should make an effort to watch more Asian cinema this coming year.
933. Yorum: A phenomenal film that brilliantly combines dark comedy, thriller, and social critique. The direction is superb, while the cast delivers strong performances. The film masterfully explores themes of class differences and inequality, with a gripping story that holds your attention from start to finish. It's an intelligent, emotional, and visually impressive film that rightfully earns accolades and leaves a lasting impression.
934. Yorum: film is completely subjective but objectively this was the best movie ever made
935. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. You know why? If you make a plan life never works out that way”
Simply one of the greatest films of all time and the overwhelming hype is certainly warranted. I was actually slightly nervous it may not live up to the billing on rewatch as I watched it pretty early on my time on this app and I’ve seen so many classics since, however it was as exceptional as on first watch. It’s really a toss up between this and Memories of Murder for my favourite Bong Joon-Ho film and I’ll have to rewatch the latter soon to separate them.
This was thrilling from start to finish following the journey as the entire family navigated its way to employment in the wealthy Park household and just when you got the sense they had reached stability, a major twist happened to keep you enthralled. The film does a good job of giving a realistic but sad depiction of the way the lower class are perceived by the elite, we can repeatedly see the Park family undermining the lower class by mentioning the way they smell.
936. Yorum: 
937. Yorum: Very Good Movie. A Bit Overrated In My Opinion But The First Half For Me Was A 10/10 But The Second Half Got A Bit Boring In My Opinion. However, This Was Still A Solid Watch With Good Plot Twists And Acting.
938. Yorum: it's okay honey. the tent'll be fine, it's from the u.s.
939. Yorum: Parasite is a film that induces every emotion imaginable. This is a damn funny movie, and I am only just now coming to realize that. I feel as though I have unlocked a new level of appreciation for this movie when it’s comedy finally clicked for me. Everyone will find different aspects of Parasite comedic, but I found the most striking comedy within the mannerisms of the mother of the rich Park family. Bong Joon-ho didn’t just decide to make this character overly gullible and reactive just for plot convenience, it shows how hilariously helpless rich people are without the working class to help keep them afloat. Parasite’s metaphor is not as black and white as people say, and has multiple layers to it such as the one I just mentioned and utilizes visual metaphor to back it up. 
The scene in this movie that sticks out to me each time I revisit it is the peach allergy scene. There are shots being perfectly stitched together from three different settings that all come together to form a moment far more impactful than if it were told traditionally. Parasite has the finest editing that I have ever seen within a film in this century, and this example is only one of the instances that gives Parasite this esteem. The film looks beautiful too, especially in its smooth tracking shots and wide angles. It is all of these elements, along with a compelling story that have me returning to Parasite time and time again. There is so much here to be dissected and many connections that can be made on further rewatches. Nothing negative at all to say about this film, if you’re looking for something with a little bit more substance, check out my previous review. 
Number 6 on my top 50 favorites of all time
Most rewatched films
940. Yorum: i know i’m like half a year late but BONG HIVE WYA?!
941. Yorum: The most telling part of the film comes at the very end. After all the culturally appropriated chaos ensues, a man looks towards capitalism with optimism. He believes that through capitalism, he can escape... from capitalism. With this hopeful naivety, we see how much this system has a hold on both the individual and society at large.
942. Yorum: I'm away from home for work for a while, so my schedule might get a bit weird (meaning I'll probably spend a lot of time in my hotel room binging movies), but I am in a bigger city than usual, so I also get access to some theater showings that I'd normally have to go out of my way for. I was very pleased to get a chance to revisit this in the theater and show that extra support for it. A thoroughly fantastic film, and easily one of the best of the year.
943. Yorum: Not only is Parasite a significant improvement over his other two most recent films, but its use of peaches as a plot device blows Call Me By Your Name out of the water.
(Also, thank goodness I managed to catch this while on vacation, because cinematic releases of Asian films are so terrible in Swe(e)den that they won't show this there until winter)
10/10
944. Yorum: Damn this was brilliant. I went into this film not knowing much about it or the plot, and I’m glad I did, because it made it all that much more enjoyable, surprising and thrilling. 
Parasite is a really unique look at class, privelage, family and society. It’s great storytelling, the way the plot plays out is fantastic, one thing unravels into the next, and before we know it things get pretty crazy. The whole ensemble is great, everyone played their part so well and were all very believable. 
I like how it’s hard to place a genre on this film - yes, it’s a drama, but there are many scenes which made me laugh (I guess it’s more dark humor), and scenes where I was on the edge of my seat with tension. But nothing felt out of place or uneven, the tone and style of this film was very clear and sure of itself. The climax of the film was brilliant and the ending was incredibly well done and masterful. 
Props to Bong Joon-ho on his wonderful directorial effort. Parasite is definitely one of the best films of 2019. A must see.
945. Yorum: Although Bong Joon-ho has made more formidable pictures, this razor-sharp treatise on social class differences in South Korea shocks and entertains in equal measure.
Full review: wp.me/pat7iE-KH
946. Yorum: this movie is amazing. it’s honestly worth it for that one scene of the old housekeepers husband slowly coming up from the opening in the floor. crazy great acting and execution even if it’s a slower watch, so good
947. Yorum: Parasite is an amazingly unique and creative film that is very cleverly crafted, displaying thought provoking themes of class conflict and social inequality. Right from the opening we’re presented with wonderful visuals with top notch lighting and colour grading that is displayed throughout the entire film. 
All the characters are thoughtfully written and you end up caring for them. In a regular and mediocre film the rich family would have most likely have been annoying and hatable but Bong Joon Ho makes it so almost everyone is likeable to some degree. The dialogue is excellent and definitely worth mentioning as it is engaging and really clever. The actors all do brilliant jobs too. 
The story was really interesting but for me it took a while to really get going but after the first act I couldn’t take my eyes off the screen. The way genres are blended is just genius. It’s hard to put a genre on this film as it can be  comedic, frightening and mysterious. The music suits it all too as it’s also at times playful and at other times intense and dramatic. The film manages to pull all of this off without being messy or disorganised. 
The more I think about Parasite, the more I appreciate it. I’m looking forward to rewatching cos I think that I’ll enjoy it a bit more knowing what happens. There’s a good chance I’ll end up giving this a 5 one day. I really need to see more foreign films and now I’m definitely more interested in seeing Bong’s other works. 

SPOILERS

My biggest issue with the film is that I have no idea how Ki-woo was alive at the end. I loved the ending but surely having a big rock smashed on your head twice would kill you. It’s not that important but I found it to be a bit distracting. 
Anyway I loved this film and can definitely understand why so many have called this a masterpiece and I wouldn’t hesitate to recommend it. 
Thanks for reading :)
948. Yorum: Forse il film più completo che abbia mai visto. Brillante, divertente e drammatico il tutto servito con una regia impeccabile. Meritatissima la palma d'oro a Cannes 2019, sono sicura lo vedremo in lizza per i prossimi Oscar 2020.
Commento rozzo: altro che la pesca in "Call me by your name"
949. Yorum: 
950. Yorum: You can smell it on ‘em.
951. Yorum: Probably the best movie of this year. I was on the edge of my seat through the whole movie. Acting is so natural and trailer didn't reveal anything to me and I'm grateful for that. This is another Korean masterpiece and it reminds me a little of Oldboy. It is shame that I had to watch it online because they aren't showing it in my cinema.
952. Yorum: I already thought Parasite was perfect but on rewatch it somehow got better, can letterboxd add a 6th star??
One of the greatest screenplays of the century. Some of the best suspenseful anxiety inducing cinema ever that also includes one of my favourite examples of hitchcocks bomb theory in modern cinema! What I would do to see this on the big screen.
I could go on all day saying what’s great about Parasite — like how beautifully shot it is, how incredible the performances are, how great the score is. But I can’t say what hasn’t already been said. One of the best films of the century, One of the best films of all time.
How were none of the actors nominated for Oscar’s though?😭  Song Kang-Ho gave the best performance of the year and no one can convince me otherwise.
953. Yorum: This film was completely different to what I thought it would be. I knew it would be good because of all of the high ratings and awards it got, and while yeah, it’s overrated, it was still a very good film. This movie definitely has a LOT of symbolism in it, different items and themes symbolising different things, which I really respected. I liked the idea of the film, the final few scenes were very shocking, and the ending was a little confusing but once I understood it, I liked it.
The title for this film is also perfect, along with the foreshadowing. I like how the film centres around social injustice and how both families can be seen as parasites. It’s a very original and unique film, but I do think it’s very overrated- like letterboxd’s number 8 film and a 97 Metascore is a bit too much. I did really respect and enjoy this film, but I think some people say it’s way better than what it is. 
Edit: After having a while to think about this film, I feel like it has quite a few issues and while I respect the film i’m honestly not the biggest fan- it’s a decent film but very overrated
954. Yorum: I know I’m five years late but this film was fucking bananas. I didn’t really have much of an idea what it was about considering its popularity but I could have never predicted where this story ended up going
955. Yorum: Everything about this movie is brilliant
956. Yorum: I recently watched Parasite again, and it's truly a fantastic movie, a Korean movie that's a mix of drama and thriller. It's all about rich and poor families, showing how different their lives are. The director, Bong Joon-ho, is known for talking about class differences in his films. Parasite does this really well by making us laugh and feel suspense, while also showing how tough life can be for the working class in South Korea. The way the story is told, how it's directed, the speed of the movie, and how it looks on screen all come together perfectly. Every scene makes you feel something deep. The movie's message is important, especially now when the rich can escape problems by going to private islands, while the poor are losing their homes and jobs. Parasite proved that even movies with small budgets can win big awards and make people from all over the world appreciate non-English movies, once they get used to reading subtitles. While I think Bong Joon-ho made even better movies, Parasite will be remembered as his best work for a long time. People will talk about it and study it for years to come.
957. Yorum: The game. The difference between crosses and structures you never knew about. Flooding textures unto the ones over there: sadness, rage; joy. Aggression is never subtle, but mashing the controller's buttons brings an awareness over the absurdity. In this world, you saw a pizza place manager who looked like someone you knew, a singer who never wanted to be one, the local detective whose face didn't fit the role, a film reviewer who seemed old but was young, the rich who didn't feel the need to think about others or a man who thought he was content with the current life. Idealizing and realizing. And by cynical fate. My life was now in shambles and everyone was affected. The game has changed.
958. Yorum: HOLY PEACHES THIS IS A MASTERPIECE, IM LOST FOR WORDS
959. Yorum: finally sat my parents down and got them to watch parasite and oh my god...  my da, after drinking half a bottle of rosé, was fully mesmerised, the whole time spent giving his thoughts, analysis and opinions like he was one of the very participants in the directors commentary hahaha ! honestly i have never seen two people more passionate about a film before in my life ! bong joon-ho’s effect am i right ?!
960. Yorum: "Oh no, we have become the parasite!"
"They are a parasite on our home!"
Seriously?! This is the highest-rated movie on this website, and the movie's title isn't even said in the film?! I gave you 2 easy examples Bong Joon-ho. Be better.
961. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho is a comedic genius and I feel like we don’t give him enough credit for that.
Btw, I’m just kinda always watching this movie. Sometimes I watch it all the way through, sometimes just sections, sometimes just one scene on repeat. I love music and I realize there are a handful of films that are more like favorite albums to me. This is one of them. Others include The Lobster, The Big Lebowski, The Life Aquatic, The Meyerowitz Stories, L’argent, Lady Bird. (Yes, the letter “L”, idk why.)   
Every single part of this film is perfect. Individually and as part of the whole. Which is impossible, but, like, somehow still exists. Every time I watch it I find some new brilliant detail or line or connection. Every Frame a Painting? Yes. But also, Every Moment a Cinematic Masterpiece. (Sounds way more awkward, but you get my point.) 
Like that moment when the camera follows the mug as he’s about to take a drink but the mom interrupts and the camera stops and tracks back? CINEMATIC EUPHORIA.
.
.
.
.
.
P.S.
If you love Parasite and haven’t seen Barking Dogs Never Bite, you should check it out. Might not be for everyone, but I loved it. It’s on Hulu.
*
my "bong joon-ho ranked" list
my “sharp turn” list
962. Yorum: 
963. Yorum: Sono passate 10 ore dagli Oscar e ancora GODO.
Più ci penso e più GODO.
GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO
La cosa che mi fa GODERE di più è che non ha vinto 1917.
Daje BONG.
Traduzione per gli inglesi che stanno a casa a piangere pensando di aver già vinto Regia e Film:
Translation:
Ueeee ueeee ueee ueeee ueeee.
I spent 10 hours from the Oscars and I still enjoy.
The more I think about it, the more I ENJOY.
GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO GODO
The thing that makes me ENJOY more is that it didn't win 1917. Ueeee ueee ueeee ueee ueee ueeee ueeee.
Daje Bong.
Traduzione per Francesco Aló:
Aripiate.
Traduzione per i Coreani:
한국인을위한 번역:
오스카 이후 10 시간이 지났지 만 여전히 즐길 수 있습니다.
더 많이 생각할수록 더 즐거워집니다.
고도 고도 고도 고도 고도 고도 고도 고도 고도 고도 고도 고도 고도 고도
나를 더 즐겁게하는 것은 그것이 1917 년에 이기지 못했다는 것입니다.
Traduzione per Bong:
... --- -. --- / .--. .- ... ... .- - . / .---- ----- / --- .-. . / -.. .- --. .-.. .. / --- ... -.-. .- .-. / . / .- -. -.-. --- .-. .- / --. --- -.. --- .-.-.-
.--. .. ..-- / -.-. .. / .--. . -. ... --- / . / .--. .. ..- / --. --- -.. --- .-.-.-
--. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. --- / --. --- -.. ---
.-.. .- / -.-. --- ... .- / -.-. .... . / -- .. / ..-. .- / --. --- -.. . .-. . / -.. .. / .--. .. ..-- / .-..- / -.-. .... . / -. --- -. / .... .- / ...- .. -. - --- / .---- ----. .---- --... .-.-.-
964. Yorum: Just waiting on my college friend's grandpa to lend me a wealth stone, then I can start my Get Rich Quick™ scheme.
965. Yorum: First review: letterboxd.com/thommy1801/film/parasite-2019/
After my first rewatch, I love this film even more than before. Everything just fits together perfectly. “Parasite” is original, unique, and unpredictable. The most impressive aspect of the film is how smoothly it repeatedly switches between different genres and tones. Some parts are hilarious, others are exciting, suspenseful, dramatic, disturbing, shocking, or sad, and no scene feels out of place.
“Parasite” is a masterfully crafted work of art. It has a flawless pacing, fantastic score, brilliant editing, and absolutely stunning cinematography, shot composition, and production design. But the film is not only extremely stylish, it also has a lot of substance that comes in form of its profound dialogue and thought-provoking thematic subtext and social commentary. Bong Joon-ho often explores political themes in his films (“Snowpiercer”, “Okja”, “The Host”) but “Parasite” has the subtlety, nuance, and depth I was missing in most of his earlier films.
Heart and soul of the film are the unforgettable characters, who are all layered, flawed, and believable. There are no real heroes and no real villains in this story. Nobody has evil intentions and still the film is full of morally questionable actions, which lead to tragic consequences. You see where everyone is coming from and you root for them all. The emotional investment is definitely very high. The ensemble cast is phenomenal, and everyone brings their A game. My personal favorite is Park So-dam, but they are all fantastic.
Long story short, “Parasite” is one of the best films of the year and everyone should see it. It also is the perfect film to introduce someone to Korean cinema.
966. Yorum: masterpiece.
𝔪𝔞𝔰𝔱𝔢𝔯𝔭𝔦𝔢𝔠𝔢.
Masterpiece.
𝕄𝕒𝕤𝕥𝕖𝕣𝕡𝕚𝕖𝕔𝕖
MASTERPIECE
ＭＡＳＴＥＲＰＩＥＣＥ
𝐌 𝐀 𝐒 𝐓 𝐄 𝐑 𝐏 𝐈 𝐄 𝐂 𝐄
【M】【A】【S】【T】【E】【R】【P】【I】【E】【C】【E】
somehow, this got even better on a second watch. the film's comedic moments were given much more space to breathe (a lot of things I had previously missed were picked up on with a chuckle) and with the exception of the last little stretch, knowing the endgame just lets the film show off how airtight its script is. there is not a single line that is thrown in for no reason. I'm hearing that Portrait of a Lady on Fire might be coming for the title of Best Film of 2019, but at this rate I'm happy to call the year right now and go out with Parasite still on top. It deserves nothing less.
967. Yorum: Watching this for a second time made it even better and showed just how incredible that this movie actually is.
Parasite has a complicated and multi-levelled plot and yet it is still displayed in a way that makes it unbelievably easy to understand it on almost every level. It is extremely well written and shows many different perspectives on the way that society views wealth and family.
Many films exist today that require lots of youtube videos etc afterward that help people understand it more, but I feel that Parasite manages to show you everything it is doing while you watch it.
The ending is immaculate and, somehow, satisfying on every single level.
While it is immensely sad, they also somehow make it quite funny and I can see why it is viewed as a comedy movie. This just shows how incredible the writing really is.
968. Yorum: PARASITE is a great as everyone is saying but I would have preferred a little more Bunuel and a little less Tarantino.
969. Yorum: holy fuck
970. Yorum: Many has already said it and I am just gonna be a broken record about it: PARASITE is Bong Joon-ho magnum opus. His best film to date. Insanely unpredictable, oftentimes hilarious. In a David Ehrlich two movies combination palette manner, it’s Hirokazu Kore-Eda’s DOGTOOTH.
971. Yorum: if i stay broke a lil bit longer i’ll turn into one of them
972. Yorum: Holy shit this movie is CRAZY in the best way possible, pure art.
How can you get better than this?!?
p.s the peach allergic housekeeper and her husband are gonna appear in my nightmares I know it.
973. Yorum: a huge win for small house enthusiasts like myself. This is the reality that big house fans want. Spread the word.
974. Yorum: Oh lord…again? A fucking gain! Nothing new! Nothing changed! Same old shit! Same old fucking shit!
also i am obsessed with this poster; here’s a list of other posters that i adore —> poster porn
975. Yorum: 
976. Yorum: I don’t think there’s anything left to be said that hasn’t been said already! Parasite is a terrific movie. It became an immediate cult hit, to the extent that I never quite had seen before. The most underrated aspect to this film (in my opinion) is the editing. In fact, I may consider it the strongest element to the film cuz it really drives the narrative forward. And honestly should’ve won the best editing Oscar. The “peach” montage is one of my favorite montages in film!
977. Yorum: 96
You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan, no plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
Did Parasite live up to the hype?
YES.
Don't watch the trailer, don't read up about it, just go out, buy it, watch it and experience one of the best releases of modern cinema.
978. Yorum: I haven’t watched this in about a year and half and I forgot just how funny it really is. Before the genre shift this is more of a comedy than anything else and it’s a genuinely great one at that. Water being thrown on a drunk pisser in slow-mo, saying grace because of the bountiful Wi-Fi, literally reciting a script of complete bullshit to spew to their boss, saying that the bottom corner of a painting is the “schizophrenic area”...it’s all there. It’s all so god damn funny.
And then there’s the second half of the movie. It’s rich with all sorts of symbolism about class and servitude. We’ve all talked about the rain storm affecting both families very differently, and the two poorer families tearing each other apart for the opportunity to be servants, but remember earlier in the film when they get the wealth rock, and the son literally says “it’s metaphorical” and, ya know, it is. There’s stuff like that littered throughout this movie. This movie is both extremely subtle and point-blank obvious in the best possible ways. It’s a classic Bong comedy/thriller that still blows me away.
“Parasite” is one movie that is really two movies, and somehow both are excellent. 
FAVORITES
979. Yorum: ate ramen while mrs. park was eating hers, does that make us... girlfriends???
980. Yorum: this movie changed my life i’m not even kidding
981. Yorum: If you feel inspired by “Parasite” and want to move into the home of people, eat their food, use their stuff, etc. - Please don't forget this small but important detail: DO IT TO RICH PEOPLE!
I, for example, am not rich. I am a piss-poor no-budget filmmaker, heavily in debt from my latest project, barely surviving on however often my films get watched any given month, so don't you do it to me!
Especially since it has recently been done.
(The following account is, of course, entirely fictional!)
Three months ago, after a party, a teenage girl moved into my flat. She refuses to leave. It's really irritating.
After moving in, she reluctantly became the girlfriend of my flatmate to have a legitimate reason to stay.
It's my flat, I'm renting a room to him, so after a few weeks of her living there - washing her laundry there, routinely eating my food - against my explicitly stated wishes and without ever paying a dime, I asked my flat mate to at least spend half the time at her flat with her (her dad rents a flat right around the corner of our's for her) and only half the time at our's.
I also asked for her to stop eating my food, taking my drinks and playing with my stuff.
My flat mate suggested that, if I didn't like the way things were, I was welcome to move out. So I terminated his contract.
They still refused to leave.
Instead of leaving, my flat mate told me “Look how calm I am! Check my pulse! Absolutely calm! You, on the other hand, you're stressed! And I know that, as a type one diabetic, stress can be dangerous to you. Stress can kill you! I've read up about that! Isn't that fucking funny? Some time soon, you'll just die if I stress you enough! How funny is that? You'll die, simply because I'll stress you out! Challenge accepted, my friend!”
(When Ki-woo started his whole thing about Da-hye's pulse, I was CERTAIN he was inspired by this movie!)
For some reason, going to her place is not an option for them. Not even for a day. Not even for an hour. It's as if they can't enter her flat.
The two of them started to gang up on me, occupying the kitchen, making music when I wanted to sleep, leaving their shit in the toilet for me to clean, petty stuff like that. I took my stuff from the kitchen (table, couch, etc.), asked them again to please leave and threatened to otherwise seek help in court.
The next day, my flat mate sued me for locking away “his stuff”. Stuff that had been there for a year before he had moved in.
I was terrified of what evil plans he might have cooked up this time, what outlandish lies he might tell in court and how a clever lawyer might in the end get him my flat.
I had thoroughly overestimated him. He showed up without a lawyer, irritated the judge with weird, incoherent, ridiculous accusations (“He smashed an avocado of mine! His girlfriend said 'I am not fat' by which she clearly meant to call MY girlfriend fat! LOCK HIM UP!!!”) and even though the trial wasn't about that at all, in the end the judge decided that he had to leave the flat within a week and his girlfriend wasn't to enter the flat again.
The judge asked my flat mate several times, why he and his girlfriend can't just hang out at her place, since it's just around the corner. He dodged the question.
I guess they've simply rented it out to someone else, and since her dad pays her rent, they make a nice sum off of her dad's and my back. But what do I care. I simply want them both to leave.
The trial was a week ago. I'm not home. He and his girlfriend are. He wrote me an e-mail, saying that “obviously” he wouldn't “act according the agreement reached in court”.
When I'm done working and coming back home, I'll have to actually get the police to throw him out, which, this being Germany, will take another couple of weeks for all kinds of bureaucratic hurdles. I just want to live in peace! And without parasites! I'm poor, I can't afford to house and feed random teenagers!
When he's finally gone, I will make sure to thoroughly check the basement.
Because of my weird personal situation, “Parasite” didn't work entirely as the “rich vs poor” metaphor for me, that it so obviously aims to be. The images are gorgeous and most of them include “up and down” layers of some kind. The dialogue is clever and further deepens the metaphor – for example when the rich couple first complains about the smell of the poor and then fetishizes them in their sex play.
“Parasite” is also entertaining as fuck and so tense, it's almost unbearable. The acting is marvelous all around, I personally was particularly impressed by Kang-Ho Song.
I don't think a parasitic lifestyle is a trademark of the poor. My personal parasites have upper-class parents and enough money. But that's a very particular,minor, personal nitpick about the metaphor presented by a flawless movie.
“Parasite”, to me, was the most tense cinema going experience in forever and everyone who, like me until now, still hasn't seen this masterpiece – What are you doing with your life!? Go watch it! NOW!
982. Yorum: I FINALLY got to see this because I bought it yesterday. I sat down to watch it with my sister and words cannot describe the feeling I got after watching it. 'Parasite' is something (art, a movement, an ideology, I don't know) that is powerful and intricate. Bong Joon-Ho really violated my whole state of being. I think I went through every emotion that is possible whilst in the process of viewing this film. It starts off as a comedy then goes to drama, horror (I was scared), domestic thriller then just like a regular thriller then a heartwrenching, tear-bringing cathartic display of empowerment and importance of family! 'Parasite' seriously packs a punch. I think everything that has needed to be said about it has been said. The cast is perfect (and snubbed might I add) and the story is so twisty turny that on a second watch I probably couldn't tell you what happens next. This film is simultaneously horrifying and electrifying. Everything is right and everything is wrong at the same time. The IMPLICATIONS of what this film means...it could be analysed for centuries. Truly the best picture of 2019, they got it right.
983. Yorum: 100
That's Best Picture winner Parasite for you.
984. Yorum: I don’t even know where to start with my review. 
The movie carries its name so well. The flood scene made me very sad bc it showed how bad people live in some places of town without the richest even knowing. Also I think part of the movie was about respect. It shows how the wealthy believe money and power exempt you from respecting people from a different social class.

Edit: I think the parasites of the movie are the Ki-taeks (to a certain extend), the Parks family. Even though they end up leaving in the house, the question is do they really belong there?
On the whole the movie was very good, for sure the best Palme d’Or winning movie I’ve watched in years, the score is amazing, directing and acting on point. Need more movies like this.
985. Yorum: There is something in this for everybody. And no matter what that something is, it’s done flawlessly.
‘Parasite’ is an absolute tapestry, and it’s my guess that we’re witnessing the birth of an instant classic. The pacing was excellent, the tone was inspired, the social commentary was subverted, the performances were cohesive, the cinematography was immersive, the plot was wonderfully complicated and precise, the score was robust - the everything was everything. Suffice it to say I’m a huge fan.
Go see this.
986. Yorum: You know something? I think this just might be my masterpiece
987. Yorum: If I was rich, I'd be nice too.
-Chung-sook
Really not much of a surprise that Bong Joon-ho’s latest film defies being pigeon holed into a genre. It’s part dark comedy (an excellent one at that), part family drama, part thriller, hell you might even consider it a horror film at one point. It’s just what Bong Joon-ho does. No biggie.
The Kim family are a clan of unscrupulous con artists, but it’s almost impossible not to love them (if you’re not the one being scammed). Certainly helps when you have Song Kang-ho as the head of the family.
Does it delve into what it means to be a decent human being? Certain people are only decent in certain situations? It’s easier to be perceived as a good person when you have no hurdles in your life? Or is it just a fucked up movie?
Side note, I think Ki-jung (Park So-dam) might have been my favorite character. From her entire attitude when forging the documents to her first meeting with the mother was just aces.
Looking forward to watching this again.
---------------------------------------------------
Degrees of Separation from Last Movie:
-Parasite with Song Kang-ho
-Was in Snowpiercer with Octavia Spencer
-Was in Luce
988. Yorum: 
989. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan that never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned."
This must be the only South Korean content that really matters right now. Go see Parasite. You must go completely blind; avoid the trailer and pay no heed to spoilers. This is the MOVIE OF THE YEAR!
990. Yorum: This is incredible! Unbearable suspense and masterful in every sense possible. Bong joon-Ho is a great director and one of the best in modern cinema to be honest, his movies are always on top and those last minutes in this movie were really thrilling. This is the best movie of 2019 so far no doubt about it.
991. Yorum: An incredibly engaging dark comedy that also verges on the thriller genre with its great twists and turns, whose smart commentary on social class issues, and thus social status and materialism make for an entertaining, clever, suspenseful and even moving film.
A truly deserved Palme d'Or!
992. Yorum: "If I had all this I would be kinder." - Chung-sook,
- Bong: boxd.it/497EM
I still find it astounding that this got no nominations for acting by the academy. Did Song Kang-ho and Park So-dam mean nothing to you?
993. Yorum: Not much needs to be said to explain the ranking here. I think the Oscars speak for themselves.
994. Yorum: Ever since I first watched Parasite, and on every subsequent rewatch, the story manages to relocate itself into every nook and cranny in my brain. I spent days awake thinking about the ending, about the film and the experience. All the way back in 2020, it recontextualized my understanding of what cinema could do.
“This is so metaphorical.”
Harrowing and haunting, few movies have shook me to my core like this. Morality is ambiguous; every character is at once likable and utterly detestable. The story is deeply tragic, the poor family live in a dog-eat-dog world, even mistaking the premium dog food as their own. That low. And the rich family is ignorant, well-meaning but lacking empathy. Their youngest has a fascination with “Indians”, shooting arrows and camping outside with no context of the grizzly background that surrounds their American association. The socioeconomic gap is seen with the camera, a literal height difference is captured on the screen. It’s an elegant example of powerful symbols.
"Not 'rich but still nice'. Nice because she's rich, you know?"
It’s a simple examination of social class under a new lens, a careful consideration with the overdramatic, cinematic flairs of Bong Joon-Ho. Symbolism is stark and the intricate layers of subtle commentary elicit new reactions with every thought. But above all it’s deeply moving: terrifying but also miserable, impossible to stop thinking about. A parasite to the mind.
The story is undoubtably wild and it’s initial shock is undeniable, yet the storytelling and its efficiency, clockwork pacing and flow, give way to a genuine, darkly candid discussion that you will be forced to face in your own time. The spark that lights the fire.
And it’s inherently accessible, laced with comedy and irony—a constantly entertaining and engaging film by nearly everyone’s standards. Thrilling beyond belief and an edge of your seat experience. Unexpected turns reveal the master plan that Bong Joon-Ho seemed to have harbored from the beginning, every piece clicks into place. The script (and it’s deservedly revered English translation, some of the best ever done) is ingenious. They say it created a genre of its own for a reason; it boasts a balance of tones that gives both chuckles and devastating heart-drops in a cohesive package.
The third act is the most divisive ingredient of this recipe for success, yet I think it's a perfect capstone to the heightened reality that slowly invades the film (but that's quite present since the start). It adheres to the way it defines itself until that last act, where it crosses the line into a near fable-like ending. It’s memorable, effective, nearly surreal, but a looming reality is still there.
For a film that tells us that the best plan is no plan, this was planned to perfection. And the execution? Well… see for yourself.
“You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all.”
—— •— ••• — • •—• •——• •• • —•—• •
995. Yorum:  “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.”
This deserved it’s oscar and It deserved it for various reasons. Parasite consists of well sculptured characters and incredibly entrancing narratives. This is my first Bong joon- ho film, and he definitely did not disappoint, he really delivered such a stellar film with remarkable storytelling. It grabs you right at the beginning and never lets you go. And, by that, it’s truly a profound piece of filmmaking.
996. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho movies ranked: boxd.it/oheD8
I finally decided to watch this movie and it was maybe not as fantastic and flawless as people say but it was still a damn great movie. 
I have somehow been able to avoid spoilers so i knew nothing about the story other than it being about a poor and a rich family.
I really liked the story and i liked how it wasnt just “huh rich people bad” but also showed the poor steal jobs and fight each other, while desperately fighting for the unobtainable wealth. The rich were not flawless either but their flaws were not as visible, as the main focus of the movie was on the materialistic wealth. 
The charachters were good but the rich people were a bit too gullible at times. 
The pacing was generally pretty good but i still think the movie spent a lot of time setting up the story, which even though it lead to something great still kinda bothered me. 
The ending was good and i liked the message, as it really gave us something to think about.
997. Yorum: 2019 Ranked
Scavenger Hunt 57 - movie 7, a Palme D’or winner.
Even with all the hype surrounding this movie, I was still surprised by how much I liked it. Such a great plot, a sort of a tense thriller, with bags of charm and comedy thrown in for good measure; and some of the best twists and turns I have seen recently in a movie. I didn’t know what to expect when I went in, but it certainly wasn’t this, which is a good thing completely. 
It’s shot beautifully, I wasn’t overly keen on the directors work I had previously seen (mother), but this movie looked incredible, the juxtaposition of shots showing the poor side of the town compared to that of the richer, is amazing. The music helps as well, adding tension and build up, and at the same time allowing the more comedic moments to flow nicely into these dramatic elements. There’s so much to like here, every detail of the movies plot of perfectly sewn together by the directing. 
The characters all work so well, the clear divide and difference between the rich and poor; really shown. There’s heartbreaking moments with the poorer family, and you can really understand every motive and move they make. The family all work well together, you genuinely feel like they are a real family. The way they are bear opposites to the richer side show is great. The Dad, especially has so many moments that I liked. He had so many moments of levity, and then humour, that all work together wonderfully. I really enjoyed the subtleness of how characters reacted to each other in different situations, and just how each persons motive altered depending on the weird and brand new scenarios they were placed in. 
There’s really not much more to say, that I am sure others haven’t already said. But this movie is great, perhaps not my favourite of 2019, but certainly high up. The twists and turns of the story genuinely had me shocked at some moments, and some moments feel really uneasy to watch, but it’s all tied together with charm and a really good plot. The first half, for me was stronger, and there’s a clear left turn into a slightly different movie as it evolves into its conclusion, and the ending scene, as bat shit crazy as it was, is amazing.
998. Yorum: I stopped caring about what happened to this family the moment the mother pushed a dog
2019, Ranked
999. Yorum: If you haven't seen this movie yet, please don't see the trailer and don't read anything about it, let Bong Joon Ho amaze you.
This is what a masterpiece looks like.
The smartest thing I've done this year was going into this film without knowing the plot, I didn't see the trailer, and I didn't read anything about it only that Arturo Zurita called it the best film of the decade.
I thought it was going to be a slow, boring drama or that Parasite referred to a monster/virus movie...
I soon realised how wrong I was.
This amazing movie doesn't fit any gender, no category can contain this. I thought it was going to be a family drama, then a heist movie and then... It subverted my expectations, the moments of tension are so brilliant I literally wasn't able to breathe in some parts.
When I got why is it named Parasite —The Kims taking advantage of the Park family, living at their expenses— I knew this was going to be a masterpiece, cause I really think this is one.
I never got bored of Parasite, not even for a second, this ingenious film had me intrigued the two hous of its runtime.
The performances are great and I think it reflects the duality of the characters. No one fit the definition of a hero or a villain, no one was entirely good nor completely bad.
I also think it's a comment on morals, ethics and family values.
The atenttion to detail is perfect, everything set in the first act has a payoff at the end, the third act is so crazy and wild.
I was almost crying with that ending, it totally crushed my heart.
And yes, now that I've seen the film... The poster is genius, the small details are a spoiler, but you don't even realize it.
After I saw this I said I could write a ten pages paragraph about this film and how it subverted my expectations, how it is a modern masterpice, why everyone needs to see it and why it deserves to win the most prestigious accolades. But I don't know what to say now, it left me speechless.
I'll say it again:
This is what a masterpiece looks like.
1000. Yorum: When this film was announced as an advance screening for members only at one of my favorite arthouse theatres (and for free, no less!), I pretty much cleared my schedule immediately. I had to drive for just under two hours through heinous construction and rush-hour traffic, but I knew it would be worth it (and I wasn't wrong!).
I knew little about the plot beforehand and had only seen the trailer a couple of times, and that really enhanced my experience, so I don't want to go into any specifics here for that reason. A lot of the awesomeness of this film is due to the surprises, twists and WTF moments (and there are many).
The writing is much funnier than I'd expected, but it's equally dark and super disturbing, and the mood turns on a dime. The acting is superb and the film is also beautifully shot with gorgeous locations, both interior and exterior. The costumes are great and every character is styled in a subtle but incredibly effective way. The score is perfect and really enhances all of the emotional beats and shifts in mood and tone, which are numerous and complicated.
As I watched, I was trying to imagine how the ending could possibly be satisfying or feel "right" for such a unique and special story, but it was just as well-executed as the rest of the film, so I shouldn't have even spent a moment questioning it.
Really, I can't think of a single element or moment that I didn't like, or even a nitpicky complaint. When the movie ended, the stranger on my right looked at me and just said "WOWWWW" and I said "YEAH" and we sat through the credits in stunned silence. The couple on my left immediately started complaining about the movie, though, so clearly not everyone falls under its spell. Cool with me - the fewer people I'm fighting for tickets when I see it again, the better.
1001. Yorum: 
1002. Yorum: Ki-taek: “Rich people are naive. No resentments. No creases on them.”
Chung-sook: “It all gets ironed out. Money is an iron. Those creases all get smoothed out by money.”
I don’t know if it’s possible to underrate a film I already call a masterpiece, but I think I’ve managed to underrate Parasite. Bong Joon-ho and his entire crew created a perfect film from opening frame all the way to credits. I honestly love every second of it. 
It’s thematically rich, while maintaining complete entertainment. It’s beautifully shot, edited, acted, and scored. Not just one of the greatest foreign language films I’ve ever seen, but one of the greatest films I’ve seen period.
Quick side note, shoutout to whoever crafted that shot of the husband’s head peaking out from the staircase. That shit is literally nightmare fuel.
1003. Yorum: So amazing, so layered, and so well written! Was a little confused on my first watch but I’m so glad I decided to watch this again. The 4.6 review rating proves how amazing this is! ( as of now on this date ). Something I noticed is how the movie uses lines as a metaphor of “crossing the line” of the characters which is layered incredibly well! Not only the lines but the use the stairs might represent high and low class of society. The higher you climb, the higher the class. Which leaves the lowest part the low class. Just stuff like that is so LAYERED! Metaphors in so many scenes and it’s “you see it, or you miss it.” What a film!
1004. Yorum: i don’t know how i haven’t seen this before now because hoooly shit. my expectations were extremely high going into it and i was not disappointed one bit, everything about it is just amazing. 
-- .- ... - . .-. .--. .. . -.-. .
(masterpiece)
1005. Yorum: Brilliantly written!!
1006. Yorum: Some nice fun and games
Then shit hits the fan big time
Who saw that coming?!
1007. Yorum: With his latest prank, Bong Joon-hos has succeeded intellectually another chunk that skilfully spins the topics previously addressed (for example in "Snowpiercer"), sometimes even turns it upside down and shakes it up, varies and stimulates thought. An incredible cinema experience, always on the move and elegant. A time document of value. Anyone who loves the moving image and does not shy away from more complex topics, demanding theses, collages (as well as subtitles) will get into a spin for sheer joy. Brilliant all along the line and hopefully should break through the "art house" sound barrier and could at least hit something in the mainstream. Because it has even something in common with “Joker” - and it has hit a nerve after all.
"Parasite" is a little the perfect storm. With "Snowpiercer" he delivered one of my post-apocalyptic favorites and with "Okja" the South Korean master made a huge contribution to the vegetarianism of some people. How can you top that ?! With “Parasite”, a wild mix of genres between social criticism and class struggle, between injustice and social ticks, between black satire and thriller, between valley of tears and cloud city, subsistence minimum and weariness, between naivety and sluggishness, need and virtue, dreaming and foaming, sparkling wine and seltzer, blood and spit. But no matter what he speaks on: he does it with style, almost grace, enormous cleverness and a lot of unpredictability. This brave blackhead is just hellish fun without neglecting content, sustainability and statements for even a second. In addition to parallels to the aforementioned own works and the current cinema version of Batman's arch enemy, this sneaky parasite also has (thematic) similarities to "Us", to "The Handmaiden", to "Burning". No lightweights at all - but Bong Joon-ho interweaves mainstream and aspirations so playfully and entertainingly that he skilfully tops off all the social relevance and the currently boiling "anger" of the lower classes, holds up a mirror for her and in some cases even cleverly unmasked. He never stands above the viewer or wants to impose, preach, or force his opinions. He always allows his own thinking, welcomes and even supports it. No wonder Cannes went crazy there. The noble gentlemen on the turquoise-blue Mediterranean had even been right here. "Parasite" is irrepressibly good and darn relevant. Fresh, as if the medium of film only existed the day before yesterday. 130 minutes rarely flew past me so quickly. A gem in the closet of cinema history. Damn!
Here you can, yes you have to use the word masterpiece (certainly also often used by me too often) without remorse. Bong Joon-ho at the peak of his creative power can take on anything and everyone. Mega-strong, almost perfect highlight for me!
1008. Yorum: MY MOM LOVED IT YAYYYY
Also, her reactions to every pivotal scene was masterful, but not as much as Bong Joon-Ho’s writing and directing.
1009. Yorum: I mean it did not disappoint at all. I mean to say it didn't disappoint is an offensive statement to this film. Because it's absolutely outstanding. Instant masterpiece, instant classic.
I can't put my finger on why or how this is just so perfectly executed but it just does. It's a realistic subtlety I think that makes everything that unfolds so mesmerising and engaging. The characters were so intriguing and so well written, the screenplay and the film are just so unlike anything I've ever seen. The astounding use of humour mixed with the shocking thrill element created the most unpredictable journey.
This is just a really hard film to review because the viewing experience really is like no other, you truly only feel the effect.
1010. Yorum: I'm so glad that this movie won best picture,Bong Joon Ho is such a great film director and I need to get a chance to watch more foreign language movies such as The farewell. Overall Amazing!!!!
1011. Yorum: AND THAT'S ON WHAT???????? PERIODDDDDDDDD
1012. Yorum: The Ron Says:  This one had a lot to live up too.  I mean it's not only the highest rated film on the 2019 Letterboxd Year in Review, it's the highest rated film on this site all-time.  Currently topping The Godfather. The first time I saw that on the all-time stats page I was honestly shocked.  Taking a timeless classic like The Godfather's spot on a site like this is pretty damn impressive.  Considering the overwhelming praise everywhere you can look, the awards it's racking up, and the strong word of mouth, naturally I expected to be disappointed.  Well folks, I'm so far from disappointed that word might as well not exist.  I've seen most of Bong Joon-ho's films and this my friends is his masterpiece.  It's close to perfect in every aspect of filmmaking and I loved the story.  I went in knowing very few plot details and I recommend that anyone who has yet to see it do the same.  What a film!  A rare 5 star treat for me.
1013. Yorum: Parasite, the latest film from renowned director Bong Joon Ho, is a master class in directing, cinematography, acting, and writing that is definitely one of the best movies of the year. The film starts out as a dark comedy about class and then takes a crazy, unexpected turn. It offers a clever and damning commentary on social inequities and the widening wealth gap. I loved the surreal flourishes woven into the story also. This is a a must-see movie and one of the best of the year!
1014. Yorum: 
1015. Yorum: *in between sobs while slow clapping and giving a standing ovation in my room* and that's Cinema
1016. Yorum: South Korean auteur Bong Joon-ho continues to be an indefinable force of nature in modern world cinema, his films are elegantly constructed social parables passed off as exciting genre pictures⁠—but with the Palme d'Or winning Parasite he defies all categorisation, except perhaps as an unrivaled genius of his field.
What struck me almost immediately is the incredible momentum by which the story is told, after a brief establishing of characters and their situation we're thrust straight into what feels like an actless, structureless vortex of ever increasing madness. You can see the influence of Kim Ki-young's seminal 1960 masterpiece The Housemaid both in the way these people speak and act impulsively as well as similarities in narrative, but make no mistake this is an extraordinarily original work, one that starts off as a lighthearted satirical family comedy before shifting gears into a savage morality tale and a denunciation of class struggle, delivered with the ferocity of Michael Haneke.
Bong really puts us through the wringer with this one—every time there's a twist or a turn the proliferating weight of the whole thing threatens to crash down and fizzle out, but such is Bong's total command of his craft that it never does and by the time the credits roll you have the fight the urge to hit play again. The ever present social commentary is truly damning, evolving into an incisive polemic on late stage capitalism, materialism, wealth inequality and our ignorance to the hidden suffering of our fellow man. For a career built on contrivance, the emotional veracity of his work is never dulled. Lives up to the enormous hype.
1017. Yorum: This took like five different turns all in a direction I was not expecting! Okay!
1018. Yorum: the power that that has, the intelligence that that has, the clearance that that has, the impact that that has, the access that that has, the influence that that has, the profile that that has, the international implications that that has
1019. Yorum: 2019 has been a veritable shocker for cinema thus far, and with that in mind, I had wondered just how much of the fevered adulation surrounding Bong Joon-ho’s film was a reaction to the dearth of quality during the first six months of the year. As it turns out... a little.
Don’t get me wrong - Parasite deliciously blends black comedy with the type of social commentary that Jordan Peele could only wish he pulled off this year. It’s entertaining throughout, with some superbly executed gear changes that had me sitting up in my seat, rubbing my hands with glee. It’s not all completely peachy, however.
Much of the impact for me was lost in the final 15 minutes. Without going into spoilers, the story-telling took a turn for the worse, leaning on a narrative device that hadn’t existed at all throughout the previous two hours, the film becoming far too concerned with spelling things out than it should have been. It left a sour taste with what was otherwise a tasty dish.
Having said that all that, I still consider Parasite a great film, the best of 2019 for me so far, and enjoy seeing the love it’s getting. Bong on.
1020. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho en Parasite representa a la diferencia de clases sociales, y a los ejes geométricos y simbólicos del film a partir de las ventanas de las dos familias.
El primer plano de la película muestra una ventana que da a la calle, el plano desciende y nos muestra a un joven con un celular buscando señal de Internet. Con ese descenso nos cuenta la clase social de la primera familia (baja) y con su forma nos muestra una pantalla como la del celular. Con un celular echarán a la mucama de la familia rica, esta los extorsionará, el joven se comunicará con su alumna y con su familia escondida. Un llamado por celular de la mujer de la familia rica interrumpe la pelea entre la pareja marginal y la familia marginal.
La ventana de la segunda familia es un gran ventanal que da a un jardín. Con su tamaño nos cuenta la clase social de la familia (alta) y con su forma nos muestra una pantalla como la del cine. Es adentro de esa casa, de esa pantalla, que la familia de clase baja hará su película usando los recursos de la familia de clase alta. Interpretarán roles, previamente guionados y ensayados, que culminarán violentamente en el jardín que da a la misma pantalla.
A su vez Bong Joon-ho llena obsesivamente cada encuadre de Parasite con formas rectangulares o cuadradas, algunos ejemplos: las cerámicas y adornos de las paredes, las cajas de pizza, el baúl que contiene la piedra 'metafórica', las mesas, los cuadros, el envase de kétchup, las hojas en donde el joven escribe los mensajes de y para su padre.
1021. Yorum: 2nd time watching this in a theater. Masterpiece.
1022. Yorum: I've been itching to rewatch this since seeing it on its release in Korea. Interestingly, my opinion of it was almost the exact same, despite not being able to understand more than a tenth of the dialogue on my first viewing. This time around the humor hit a whole lot more (as you could imagine, actually being able to understand and all) and the tension bit harder. Everything stepped up a notch, except for the ending. Final sequence is the main thing keeping this from a 10 for me. A giant bound ahead of the rest of Bong's filmography, and that is no small feat. Film of the year.
<8.9/10>
*start self-serving sidenote* in an attempt to force myself to write a real review every once in a while I'm going to write something a little less scattershot Saturday evenings. The 5 people that will read this review may now notice a longer review once a week and think to themselves "oh yeah I think I remember reading him say he would do this" and then move on with their day. Mostly, this is just a note on my fridge forcing me to try a little harder. Thank you for your time you faithful (or more likely, random news from friends scrollers) five readers. *end self-serving sidenote*
1023. Yorum: I literally care about nothing else.

(Also am I the only one who didn’t find this funny at all?)
1024. Yorum: 10+ - A brilliant social commentary on the class system in South Korea, Parasite is a refreshing and exciting genre-bender, proving why Bong Joon-ho is one of the most talented filmmakers out there.
Enjoyment: 5+/5 | Quality: 5+/5
There are a lot to say about this film as my mind still tries to make sense whether I just witnessed the best film of the decade. Brilliantly paced with intelligent metaphor and social commentary, Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is perfectly balanced, both tonally and aesthetically. To praise this film without spoiling it is an impossible task; therefore, I will reserve my thoughts for a future spoiler review, where I will dive into the details of this film. As for now, believe the hype because Parasite is a true modern masterpiece.
1025. Yorum: First rewatch in years and I’m here to report that every single minute of this is still pure gold.
1026. Yorum: amo essa família de trambiqueiros
1027. Yorum: 
1028. Yorum: insane how perfect this film is
1029. Yorum: Inicialmente eu estava contente com o que estava vendo, a forma em que essa família se infiltrava em meio a riqueza me prendeu muito e foi divertido de ver, só que apesar do plot e da reviravolta ainda achei desnecessário a morte da personagem mais querida pelo público, mas também eu pude entender a ideia que eles queriam retratar pois a realidade é realmente imprevisível. Num geral podemos ver que felicidade de pobre dura pouco, tudo gira em torno da diferença de classes e mostrando também como elas interferem na vida de cada um dos personagens, de início pensamos que o suspense está na família Parks mas é fácil entender que mesmo com uma governanta maluca, um parasita no porão e uma família trambiqueira, as passagens provocativas e sutis dos Parks falam bastante por si sós usando a metáfora do cheiro e a analogia da chuva, algo que sempre podemos acompanhar pelos noticiários, é difícil encontrar alguém que em chuva forte e com uma casa com uma boa estrutura para proteção esteja pensando nos menos favorecidos que sofrem com a perda de bens e pessoas. É um bom filme e não me arrependo de ter demorado tanto tempo para assistir por 1- vi dublado e eu não teria paciência de assistir legendado e também não estaria fazendo essa Review pois não conseguiria assistir e ler ao mesmo tempo 2- não é a oitava maravilha do mundo. Eu gostei da história, o filme é realmente muito bom, mas pensar na morte da melhor personagem, ver a forma rasa em que assuntos importantes foram abordados, a história mal contada do carinha que ofereceu o emprego pro garoto e da mãe rica, a filha rica carente e mongolóide, imaginar que o pai morrerá no porão pois o filho levará quinhentos anos para conseguir dinheiro para comprar aquela casa, esses pontos não me permitem dar 5 estrelas. Particularmente eu adorei os saltos nos gêneros, hora comédia, hora sitcom, hora suspense, hora terror, hora drama, isso me levou de contente a apreensiva inúmeras vezes, prende muito (muito mesmo, foram 2 horas que passaram em minutos) e é cheio de emoções.
1030. Yorum: Noirvember #5
While Parasite may not be a proper noir film, Google did tell me that it was somehow part of the genre.
Parasite is still a phenomenal film though and I love rewatching it! It's one of the first foreign films I watched that truly made me appreciate foreign cinema and while I still find subtitles to be the most detestable things to ever be created, I have been able to watch so many good films because of them.
The performances in this film are phenomenal each cast member delivers a tremendous performance and it's hard to say who's best.
The cinematography is amazing and deliberate. Bong Joon Ho crafted a visual masterpiece with Parasite.
Overall, while it may not be proper noir, I'm glad this marathon gave me a reason to rewatch this spectacular film.
5/5
| Noirvember |
1031. Yorum: Bong joon ho gives you everything in this movie. Laughs, Suspense, Disgust, Empathy, Shock and Hope. The message is so woven into the film and subtle. Hardly a flaw in the film. The film does not talk down to it's audience and presents characters who are not your stereotypical rich and poor. The movie makes you think, a deep long think. The runtime of 132 mins is hardly noticeable in this fast faced storytelling with a crisp screenplay. Bong Joon Ho is hands down one of the best directors of our times. Deserves all the accolades it has been garnering. Such a Masterpiece!
1032. Yorum: Parasite is a masterful film. Tackling wealth, class and society, it makes its message easy to understand without being too direct. I don’t know how it manages to balance on this line but never cross it. The story is carefully crafted and the pace is perfect. The score and cinematography are perfectly complimentary and reinforce the meaning of the whole film. The characters are constantly selling exactly what they need to to the upper class family while fighting with the lower class to make it to the top. There is a constant struggle for power, and whenever they get the slightest taste, it changes them. They become like the rich and forget about their roots. The ending is perfectly executed. It is redeeming, but by no means is it a happy ending. I cannot think of anything wrong with this film.
🔙 The Lighthouse
1033. Yorum: Watched with my dad this time and I still love it, he loved it too. I was worried since I know what was going to happen that I wouldn't enjoy it as much but I loved it even more. It's one of those films I can't really talk about because none of the things I say are going to be original. Everything about this movie is pure perfection. So well crafted and executed. It's just a great movie and you all should watch it.
Overall, a masterpiece in filmmaking and storytelling one of my highest recommendations.
1034. Yorum: A sensory feast. Happy Oscars Sunday!
1035. Yorum: it gives me hell of a serotonin and i don't even know why?!?!!!! such a great feeling, fellas.
1036. Yorum: Dang. It really is that good!
1037. Yorum: I know everyone loves to love this movie, but there’s a reason for this. I saw it with my friend who hadn’t seen it before and I think that’s the best way to see it. It adds a whole new level of watching someone else go through this film. It makes you realize just how great the film is. This is inching closer and closer to that number 2 slot as I think it’s already surpassed Rocketman and gotten into my top 3 of last year guys it’s really good.
1038. Yorum: celebratory watch post award show season and it STILL hits different
1039. Yorum: director bong struggling to hold all his oscars: it’s so metaphorical
1040. Yorum: 
1041. Yorum: BEST PICTURE BEST PICTURE
BEST DIRECTOR BEST DIRECTOR
BEST ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY BEST ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY
BEST INTERNATIONAL FEATURE FILM BEST INTERNATIONAL FEATURE FILM
1042. Yorum: Quickie Rewatch Review 
FOUR TIME OSCAR WINNER! FOUR TIME OSCAR WINNER! YES! THE ACADEMY HAS REDEEMED THEMSELVES AFTER LAST YEAR’S FIASCO BY GIVING THE BEST PICTURE OSCAR TO THE RIGHT MOVIE! OH, I’M SO HAPPY RIGHT NOW! SORRY ABOUT THE CAPS BUT I AM DAMN HAPPY RIGHT NOW! CONGRATS TO ALL PARTIES INVOLVED ON THE 4 BIG WINS! THE 4 BIG WELL-DESERVED WINS!
1043. Yorum: For a while there during the second half of the ever-ambitious 80s we saw a string of comedies get released featuring protagonists who, because of their hunger to improve their lives somehow, grossly misrepresented themselves to the rest of the world. Girls became boys, nerds turned into cool kids, mail clerks passed as executives, whitey went black before he was inevitably kicked back. These films were (for their time) wild and occasionally outrageous but also a little predictable. You always knew the situation would invariably end up going south for the heroes and that in the long run their dishonesty would only come back to bite them in the ass. Bong Joon-ho's Parasite--which follows an impoverished South Korean family who out of desperation fake a variety of personal details in order to finally land jobs working for a rich family--may be considerably smarter, more stylish, and have more of something to say than all those other films, but it also has a few of the same trademark problems that they did.
If I had to come up with a broad term for films of this type, I'd classify them as "landmine movies". Essentially the film uses its protagonists' deception to lay down a bunch of landmines all over the story early on, and then just leaves you the viewer to watch and wait for a character to come along and step on one. You know where this is going, but you still want to see how far it goes (and how it gets there). You know there's going to be an explosion, but you still want to see how bad the damage is going to be.
One of the many things Parasite does that's interesting is how, like in real life, it omits showing all of its landmines being triggered promptly (as in during the film's runtime). Some of the problems you would think are going to explode during the movie never do, leaving you to wonder when they ever will. And then around the halfway point, the film makes an explosion so big it reveals an entirely new area of territory to explore…but in doing so let's you know the film is going to dive down into a darkness from which it will not be coming back (thereby taking even more surprise away from the ending).
If the film's tone makes it predictable for some, at least we're given a very rich subtext to chew on as we travel along, with the evergreen subject of class conflict right at the forefront. There's the condescending presumptuous naïveté of the upper-class as they are deftly taken for a ride by the hard-working street-smart (but not necessarily patiently book-smart) working-class. With the film commenting on everything from spirituality to American fetishization, imperialism, resourcefulness, Native American culture and the Boy Scouts…there's a lot to unpack here, and I'm sure film analysts will have fun doing so in the years to come.
I certainly enjoyed engaging with the film's ideas when I wasn't busy admiring its fine performances or competent technical craftsmanship, but regrettably there were also other aspects of the plot that resembled the pitfalls of those 80's switcheroo movies I mentioned at the beginning. Now while I do understand that lack of interfamily communication among the upper-class Park family is supposed to be a key story theme here, it struck me that the maintenance of the lower-class Kim family's lies depended far too much and far too often on that. Maybe for some people there was a lot of suspense in the idea that the family's deception could easily come crumbling down at any moment if the Parks were just a little more attentive to each other and their surroundings, but for me at least it felt a bit too plot-convenient and kept taking me out of the film (as did the scene where a bunch of glass containers of strong alcohol get shattered and yet the Kims are able to not only clean up every last bit of glass in a few short moments and without the help of a broom but are additionally able to magically make the smell of the booze instantly disappear from the air before a family of shoeless non-smokers enter the room? c'mon now).
Still, Parasite is a very good movie that I'm glad has found an audience outside of South Korea, and I hope both film distributors & exhibitors see its success as an indication that audiences are ready for more variety in their cinematic consumption. But I'm not sure I'm there with the masterpiece label that keeps getting thrown around. I'm starting to feel like everyone got bitten by the Parasite bug except me.
1044. Yorum: Based on the cover and without watching any trailers I thought this would be a horror film. Pleasantly surprised it wasnt though. Weird film for sure. Like it.
1045. Yorum: Die Sache mit dem Hype ist gar nicht so einfach. Von PARASITE habe ich bereits vor einigen Wochen gehört und seit dem wird er mir quasi ständig in meiner Timeline angezeigt. 
Egal ob in Podcasts, Youtube News, Letterboxd oder diversen Facebook Gruppen - dieser Film scheint einfach omnipresent zu sein. 
Und dennoch habe ich es geschafft mich völlig frei von Story zu halten und kannte vom Film tatsächlich nicht ausser das koreanische Poster und dass der Film von Joon-Ho Bong (THE HOST, SNOWPIERCER) gemacht wurde. 
Ich rate jedem möglichst wenig im Vorfeld zu wissen, denn umso mehr macht PARASITE Spass. 
Joon-Ho Bong schafft es auf über zwei Stunden einen skurrilen Plot zu inszenieren der unfassbar gut ausschaut, im Grunde ist "every frame a picture". Der Soundtrack ist subtil, unaufdringlich und passend. Das Schauspiel überragend gut und ich nehme jeder Figur alles ab. Kurz gesagt: Ein absolut rundes Filmerlebnis. 
Jetzt habe ich doch Lust bekommen mal MOTHER von ihm zu schauen. 😍
1046. Yorum: We Do (Not) Live In A Society
1047. Yorum: Mendengar label film pemenang Palem Emas mungkin penonton umum menduga filmnya lambat, artsy, dan ceritanya berat. Lain soal kalau digarap sutradara asal Korea Selatan kelahiran 14 September 1969, yang sekaligus jadi orang Korea pertama peraih trofi Palm d’or (Palem Emas) Festival de Cannes 2019.
[mengandung bocoran]
Bong Joon-ho (BJH), si tangan dingin itu, berhasil menceritakan realita jurang sosial di negaranya dengan gerak drama yang tidak terduga. Mudah diikuti. Komedik. Satire. Dan tragis. Dibumbui merah darah.
Awalnya Ki-woo mengajar les bahasa Inggris ke anak gadis keluarga Park, Da-hye. Pelan dan pasti, seluruh keluarga Kim bekerja di sana. Dari mbaknya, Ki-jung, bapaknya Kim Ki-taek, dan Choong-sook, emaknya. Mereka merebut semua pekerjaan itu dengan fitnah dan trik yang culas. Apalagi keluarga Park walau kelas menengah ke atas tapi polos dan gampang terprovokasi.
Apesnya, dalam satu malam semua rencana yang baru dinikmati hasilnya langsung kandas akibat lengah menenggak khamr. Moon-kwang mantan pembantu menggagalkan semua rencana karena dia menyembunyikan suaminya di bunker. Moon-kwang dan suaminya, Geun-se, menjadi dua karakter perintang. Karakter misterius. Keberadaan keduanya pun akhirnya tersingkirkan akibat pertarungan dua kubu kaya dan miskin, Park dan Kim. Demi asas keadilan, masing-masing anggota keluarga Park dan Kim mesti mati.

Korea Selatan walau dijuluki Empat Naga Kecil Asia bersama tiga negara lainnya, kemiskinan tetap menjadi jelaga pembangunan. Gosongnya tercoreng di wajah-wajah seperti keluarga Kim. Oportunis. Cerdik. Dan bau lobak busuk. Strata itu bukan hanya pada simbol batu keberuntungan dan bau lobak, namun juga pada kontur berbukit atas dan bawah. Di mana keluarga Park di area tanah atas dan Kim di bawah yang akhirnya kebanjiran. Dalam Okja (masih karya Bong Jong-hoo), kemiskinan dituturkan lewat distribusi makanan. Pembagian hewan mutasi mirip babi. Babi yang mestinya menjadi ternak, diubah sebagai pet, hewan peliharaan sesetia anjing. Okja jatuh sebagai pet drama dan SJW hewan dengan bentangan rasa Korea dan global. Pada Snowpiercer hierarki kelas atas dan bawah terpisah pada ruang sempit pada gerbong yang terus bergerak panas ketika bumi kembali ke zaman es (sebuah kontradiksi global warming).
Pada Parasite, keluarga Kim tidak benar-benar melakukan (simbiosis) parasitisme, terhadap keluarga Park. Mereka bermutualan. Tuan Park dan istrinya digambarkan orang kaya yang ramah. Permasalahan muncul ketika dua orang kaya itu berlagak sombong di belakang, mengatai sopirnya bau lobak busuk alias bau gembel, juga untuk orang-orang commuter kerah biru yang tiap hari naik MRT. Ucapan itu terlontar begitu saja, bukan penghinaan langsung, ketika keluarga Kim menguping dari bawah meja. Begitu pun dengan gesekan antara Moon-kwang dan suaminya (dengan keluarga Kim), sewaktu Bu Choong-sook memergokinya di bunker tersembunyi. Pak Kim dan kedua anaknya yang menguping ujug-ujug jatuh, dan menggagalkan negosiasi yang hampir dibangun Bu Choong. Bahkan adegan batu keberuntungan yang dipegang Ki Woo pun mengulang pola serupa, jatuh dari tangga. Menggagalkan lagi Ki-woo yang hendak menghabisi Geun-se. Sebaliknya, dia yang dihabisi. Sampai pada malapetaka berdarah di pesta kebun.
Adegan-adegan yang menjadi turning point selalu terasa jelas diplot secara kebetulan dan berulang. Itu memberi kesan kekurangan-telatenan BJH mengalirkan sebab akibat. Tapi ya, namanya film.
Parasite tak ubahnya dongeng layar lebar yang disukai juri-juri kaukasia, di mana senantiasa kemiskinan dikomedikan dan kemakmuran adalah cita-cita utopisnya. Meniadakan dualisme status itu, bahwa sifat manusia pun seringkali bisa sangat mengerikan. Manusia merupakan imitasi binatang yang selalu punya wilayah teritori sendiri untuk dipertahankan. Masing-masing menjadi predator ataupun monster untuk wajahnya sendiri. Monster yang egois sampai monster yang kehilangan rasionalitas berpikir. Pak Kim kehilangan rasionalitasnya dan dibudaki emosi sesaat saat melihat Pak Park alih-alih menolong Geun-se malah mengambil kunci mobilnya yang terjepit di bawah tubuh sekarat Geun-se. Padahal Pak Park mau membawa Ki woo ke rumah sakit. Atau Pak Kim berpikir semua adalah dosa Pak Park sekaligus melampiaskan angkaranya.
1048. Yorum: É um filmaço realmente, super merecido ter ganhado o Oscar só na última parte eu fiquei meio ???? Mas o filme inteiro é muito bom
1049. Yorum: Finally sat down and watched this, was not disappointed at all. Yes, it is THAT good.
1050. Yorum: “If I had all this I would be kinder”


There isn’t a whole lot to say about Parasite that hasn’t already been said before. Parasite isn’t just one of the best films of the year it’s easily one of the best films of the 2010s and it’s absolutely great that people are going out and seeing this.
Parasite has a very straight forward narrative and you can easily get on board with it and know where it’s going to end up, that is until we get to the halfway point of the film where it just takes a huge left turn.
I don’t really want to talk too much about this filmjust  because I really think this is best to go into blind (although I say that with all movies)
Also surprisingly there are some super creepy moments in this film.
1051. Yorum: I had no idea what this was about going into it. The only thing I've ever seen online is the rom-don which looked so yummy. This went crazy y'all! If you havnt seen it, I highly recommend it!
1052. Yorum: Felt like trying out the B&W version (fine!) and yeah we weren’t wrong in 2019
1053. Yorum: 
1054. Yorum: WOW. i went in with such high expectations and, holy shit, this film shattered it. such a perfect film that is crafted so beautifully. everything in this movie is perfect, i love it so much, easily one of the best films i’ve ever watched and a new favourite. 100/100.
1055. Yorum: I mean, obviously this is Bong Joon-ho’s masterpiece. It’s just one of the most technically sound movies to ever be made. The score and cinematography are outstanding. The framing specifically and the color palette of the whole film are gorgeous. The writing is absolutely genius. And those performances are all top notch. Song Kang-ho is clearly terrific. But I think my favorite performance would be that of Park So-dam, she’s in complete control the WHOLE time. This movie is top tier, but you don’t need me to tell you that.
🔙 The Spectacular Now
1056. Yorum: Well...this is going to be a bit personal ( :
I've been enchanted since I first saw Parasite in January 2020 and Parasite still remains my favorite film.
I went to the cinema three times and when I first went I didn't know what to expect, I just heard that the film is good.
So my expectations were normal and I was just hoping for a good film.
Back then, after the cinema, I couldn't stop writing about Parasite
I filled 15 pages in total and then summarized them succinctly.
To this day I have never had such an experience in relation to a film and since then Parasite has been my favorite film as I already mentioned.
In case anyone is interested in my thoughts from back then (2 years ago):
It's been two years since I wrote all that, but I still see it the same way I did then.
German:
Gefühle nach dem Film:
Sprachlos, überwältigt, mit pochendem Herzen und voller Freude so einen Film erlebt zu haben zu dürfen, bin ich aus dem Kino gegangen.
Schon bevor ich von einem meiner Lieblings Filmkritiker geschweige
denn von den Oscars gehört habe, welcher der Film gewonnen hat,
dachte ich nachdem ich von der Handlung gehört habe, diese hört sich
nicht sonderbar spektakulär an. Ich hatte trotzdessen ein gutes
Gefühl, da ich lange Zeit zuvor einen Film des Regisseurs geschaut
habe und auch positiv überrascht war. Dies liegt vor allem daran das es
mich beeindruckt wie man mit so „wenig“ Handlung und Budget durch
gutes Schauspiel und vor allem eine sehr gut durchdachtes Drehbuch
so einen Film zaubern kann.
Kein gewöhnlicher Film:
Bong Joon-ho´s Film Parasite ist eine böse Satire über Wohlstandsun-
terschiede in unserer Welt, welche den Kontrast zwischen arm und reich gut durch den „Klassengeruch“ und die Wohnumgebung darstellt. Die ersten 90 Minuten mit der "Infiltrierung" der reichen Familie ist
hervorragend geschrieben wie gespielt. Dabei hat mir vor allem die Montageszene
gefallen, in der die Kims ihren Schlachtplan für die Infiltrierung schmieden und üben
dies kommunikativ so gut wie möglich üben.
Wie kann man „Parasite“ am besten beschreiben?
Es ist sehr schwer, denn allein das Genre des Films ist nicht leicht zu erfassen. Der Film funktioniert zwar hier und da als Satire, kann mit einigen wirklich witzigen Mo-
menten überraschen, hat aber auch sehr metaphorische Szenen, wird dann plötzlich unheimlich und spannend. Und das ist alles noch untertrieben. „Parasite“ hat
mich immer wieder überrascht. In einem Moment vermutet man zu wissen, was für
ein Film das ist, doch dann kommt die erste "Wendung" und dann die nächste. So etwas schaffen nur wenige Filme. Der Name des Films gibt einen wundervollen Hinweis auf das, was einen erwarten könnte.
Der Genre Mix:
Da der Film so viele Facetten bietet, weiß ich gar nicht welchem Genre
ich diesen Film zu ordnen soll. Es gibt meines Wissens nach wenige
Filme, die so viele Genres beinhalten: Comedy, Drama, Mystery, Thriller,
Romanze und sogar Horror.
Und ich denke die Mischung aus all diesen Genres macht diesen für
mich perfekten Film.
Regisseur Bong Joon- Ho:
Als ich gehört habe, dass der Regisseur Bong Joon-ho meinte er hätte einen gewöhn-lichen Film gemacht, musste ich schmunzeln, denn meiner Meinung nach hat er so
viel Liebe und Zeit in diesen Film gesteckt, dass er sich meiner Meinung nach ruhig
mal auf die Schulter hättte klopfen könnten - insbesondere, da er so viel gute Rezensionen
bekommt. Aber er ist eben bescheiden wie es scheint.
Schauspieler:
Alle Schauspieler sind fabelhaf, denn es sind nicht nur das grandiose Drehbuch oder die ebenso fabelhafte
Regie, die „Parasite“ so effektvoll machen. Besonders Song Kang-ho hat mir als Vater der Kims sehr gefallen! Als sein angeschlagener Ausdruck auf der Leinwand erschien, als Mr. Kim, der von seiner Wut getrieben wird und Mr. Park ein Messer in die Brust rammt, wird mir eine lange Zeit in Erinnerung bleiben.
Das Setting:
Für den Film wurden einige spektakuläre Sets gebaut, wie das Familienhaus der Kims etwa.
Es gibt viele kleine Details im Film, die zeigen wie viel Arbeit und Liebe investiert wurde. Beispielsweise das
Zuhause der armen Familie. Ich konnte mir nachdem ich die kleine
verkümmerte Wohnung gesehen habe, sehr gut vorstellen, dass die
Familie sich dort schon länger über Wasser hält und dadurch immer
näher zusammen gerückt ist und ein eingespieltes Team geworden ist.
Marketing:
Nur ein kleines Detail:
Positiv ist mir auch noch das Marketing (auch wenn es wahrscheinlich
gar nicht so beabsichtigt war) des Films aufgefallen, denn die Poster die
überall hangen, sahen keinerlei spektakulär, was gut ist, da
dadurch nochmal die Erwartungshaltung an den Film gesenkt wird.
Technik:
Parasiten hat sehr kreative und auf die Gesellschaft angepasste Kameraeinstellungen.
Die wunderschöne Musik:
Für gewöhnlich mag ich keine klassische Musik, aber in Parasite passt sie einfach perfekt. Der Score von Jeong Jae-il wurde wunderbar in das optische Geschehen
eingebunden und untermalt die Szenen einfach perfekt
(insbesondere in der Auto Szene wo Mr. Kim von seiner Erfahrung als "Fahrer" spricht).
Gesellschaft:
Da mich Filme, die auf die
Gesellschaftsunterschiede bzw. die Gesellschaft allgemein interessieren,
da es meiner Meinung nach oft gut umgesetzt wird bzw. unsere
Gesellschaft wirklich reflektiert/spiegelt (Bsp: Joker) war dies auch noch ein weiterer Grund meine Kompfortzone zu erweitern und den
asiatischen Kinomarkt besser kennen zu lernen. Der Spannungsbogen ist
sehr interessant gestrickt.
Die Szene in der die Kims im Regen runter laufen ist für mich sehr besonders, da sie
für das Arbeitsverhältnis von den Kims und den Parks spiegelt.
Die Parks bestimmen alles und "stehen" über den Kims. So auch die Wohnlage. Die Kims wohnen ganz unten in einem Kellerkonstrukt, in dem sie kaum Tageslicht sehen. Die Parks hingegen
thronen über allen!
Die Wendungen:
Immer wenn man denkt man hätte den Film "verstanden" bzw. durchblickt (was ja nicht unbedingt was Gutes ist da man am Ende keine Überraschung hätte) wird man
komplett aus den Schuhen gerissen.
Die Dialoge:
Ein Dialog ist mir besonders in Erinnerung geblieben. Und zwar als die Kims während der Abwesenheit der Parks das Haus in Besitz nehmen und sich betrinken. Der Vater der Kims Ki -Taek sagt die „Die Parks sind reich, aber nett“. Mutter Chungsook
sagt dazu „Sie sind nett, weil sie reich sind. Zu dem was das bedeuten soll, kann sich
jeder seinen eigenen Teil denken. Später im Film wird dieser Dialog noch wichtig, denn obwohl der Dialog nichts vorhersagt, denken viele womöglich am Ende des Films anders darüber.
Ein weiterer Dialog hat mir besonders gut gefallen, auch wenn er ziemlich tragisch ist. Und zwar als Ki-woo aus einem Fenster auf die extravagante Feier der Parks und
deren Gäste scheinheiligen mit Wehmut betrachtet und sich fragt, ob er zu der Gesellschaft gehöre bzw. ob er je dort hinein passen würde.
Oder mein Lieblingszitat überhaupt, welches sich wie sich gezeigt hat in meinem eigenen Leben wiedergespiegelt hat (in meiner "Letterboxd-Beschreibung" steht es)
Das Bündnis der Familie:
Ich finde gerade in diesem Film sieht man, dass gerade eher ärmliche
Familie sich viel näher sind und ein engeres Familienbündnis haben. Die reichen sind
zwar Reich an materiellen Dingen. Die Kims hingegen sind reich an Liebe und haben einen engen Zusammenhalt.
Klassenspannungen:
Im Film zeigen sich ab und zu Klassenspannungen, die zwar nicht verbal ausgetragen werden, aber die man bzw. ich einfach spüre. Sei es beispielsweise Mr. Park, der
in Anwesenheit der Kims darüber nachdenkt und redet, wie arme Menschen riechen,
oder ob Ki Teak die Grenze Zwischen Diener und Meister überschreitet.
Metaphorisch:
Bong Joon-ho hat sich glücklicherweise entschieden, die Klassenunterschiede nicht nur durch das visuelle, sondern durch den Geruchssinn darzustellen.
Die Treppen stellen Klassen- und Machtunterschiede dar. Die Kims fragen sich
beim Wandern nach oben, ob sie in einer gerechten Welt auch zu den Reichen gehören würden, die so weit über der Erde liegen. Beim Abstieg in ihre überflutete Wohnung in einem Sturm, der lediglich den Campingausflug der Parks abwirft, werden die Kims an die Unterschiede zwischen den beiden Familien erinnert.
Darstellung der Reichen:
Für gewöhnlich werden die Reichen ins schlechte Licht gestellt. Bei Parasite hingegen ist es mal anders. Die Parks werden nicht als Bösewichte dargestellt, ganz im
Gegenteil ich empfand sie (teilweise) als sympathisch. Doch nach dem Regensturm, der das
Haus von Kims und vieler anderer Bewohner der Armen Gegend mit Abwasser überflutet wird, sieht man ihre wahre Natur.
Sie wollen nichts mit der Unterschicht zu tun haben bzw. scheren sich auch nicht um sie.
Beispiel als es die Überschwemmung gab haben sie kein Wort darüber verloren.
Oder ganz am Ende als sie ihren Sohn in Krankenhaus bringen und somit nur an
sich denken.
Erkenntnis:
Als ich die Szene gesehen habe als die Mutter den Bunker entdeckt hat, hat man gesehen was plötzlicher Erfolg mit Menschen machen kann. Sie hat sich sozusagen über die neuen Parasiten gestellt und gesagt "Nein ihr dürft hier nicht weiter wohnen
ich muss diesen Vorfall melden".
Doch dann kehrt das Karma zurück .
Naivität der Reichen:
Übrigens finde ich es amüsant zu sehen wie naiv die Familie der Parks ist. Die Abfolge der Gehilfen im Haus also Nachhilfelehrer, Chauffeur, Haushälterin folgt ziemlich schnell nacheinander aber trotzdem sind die so naiv und glauben alles obwohl
der Sohn den Hinweis gibt, dass alle in der Familie identisch riechen und trotzdem fällt den Parks nichts auf.
Drei Kleinigkeiten im Film, die mir sehr gut gefallen haben:
-Der kleine Junge der Parks wird in den finalen Szenen ohnmächtig wird, da er den Parasiten, welcher im Keller damals schon mal gesehen hat, als dieser in der Nacht
hochschlich und sich etwas zu Essen holen wollte.
-Der Stein ist ein Parade Beispiel für einen Mc Gouffin. Wir fragen uns wieso er Fam. Kim gegen Anfang des Films geschenkt wird und am Ende des Films bekommt er seinen „Sinn“.
-Die Morsezeichen mitten im Film: Liebe es wenn man unbewusst kleine Details bemerkt.
Was das Ende für mich so gut macht:
Unvorhersehbar, nicht Chlichéehaft und komplex.
Ein Plot, der im Minutentakt die Spannung immer weiter zuspitzt.
Ich saß wirklich drei Mal mit pochendem Herzen im Kino und hatte einfach keine
Worte mehr, als es zum großen Finale kam.
Ich sage nur es ist einfach ein Schlag in die Magengrube, nichts für
schwache Nerven.
Wer ist der Parasit:
Allein der Titel des Films lässt viel Freiraum zum Interpretieren, denn wer ist eigentlich der Parasit?
Im Prinzip kann man sagen, dass fast jede Rolle des Films ein Parasit ist. Die Kims ist klar, die versteckte Familie im Keller auch aber die Parks auch. Wieso das so ist
erkläre ich wie folgt:
Da es in der Geschichte um die arme Familie geht, die in das reiche Haus eindringt und sich dort einschleicht, scheint es sehr offensichtlich, dass Parasite sich auf die arme Familie bezieht, und ich denke, deshalb war das Marketing-Team etwas zöger-
lich. Aber wenn Sie es sich ansehen So kann man sagen, dass die reiche Familieauch Parasiten in Bezug auf Arbeit ist. Sie können nicht einmal Geschirr spülen, ko-chen, sie können nicht selbst fahren, also entziehen sie der Arbeit der armen Fami-
lie. Also sind beide Parasiten.
Meine Verbindung zum Land Süd-Korea:
Ich war selbst 5 Wochen in Korea in eher ärmeren Vierteln, weshalb ich sagen kann, dass die Darstellung im Film realitätsnah ist. Damals schlief ich auch zu 4. in einem
Raum.
Und es war echt eine schöne Zeit, daher denke ich dass ich nochmal eine engere Bindung zum Land habe.
Schlusswort:
Ich habe nach dem ersten und zweiten Kinogang insgesamt fast 15 Seiten ge-
schrieben, doch musste davon viel kürzen, da sich sonst öfter etwas wiederholt hätte und es zu viel des guten geworden wäre.
Ich bin sehr froh, dass Parasite so viel Aufmerksamkeit bei den Oscars und allgemein in der Welt bekommen hat, denn obwohl ich nicht viel von den Oscars halte, erlangt
Parasite dadurch die Aufmerksamkeit, die er verdient. Vor allem aber ist besonders, dass Parasiten als erster fremdsprachiger Film den Oscar gewonnen hat.
Was Bong Joon-ho hier erreicht hat, ist eine vielschichtige Geschichte, die es schafft, unterhaltsam zu sein, ohne ihre sozialen Kommentare und Themen wie soziale Gerechtigkeit, Kapitalismus und Gier zu opfern.
Parasite ist unvorhersehbar, mitreißend und kreativ zugleich.
1057. Yorum: Song Kang-ho's best performance since his voice work as Alex in the Korean dub of Madagascar
1058. Yorum: I thought I couldn’t get any more enraptured by this film, but then I watched it in black and white. Bong Joon-Ho is bewitching.
1059. Yorum: fucking incredible i can’t believe it took me this long to watch bc i do enjoy foreign movies i just recently found out it was on Hulu but you neeed to watch this if u haven’t already
1060. Yorum: bloody fantastic. holy shit
i’ve put off watching this for so long because i never believed it would’ve lived up to my ridiculously high expectations for it but christ it went above and beyond.
generally i have a hard time concentrating on movies with subtitles cuz i have the attention span of a 5 year old and am so easily distracted but this was just so goddamn good i couldn’t look away. and that ENDING. 10/10 incredible, fantastic, thrilling, so worth the hype
1061. Yorum: A constant danger
Among angry invaders 
Who just want to live
The way this movie balances comedy and drama really knows how to create one of the best thrilling experiences I have had with a movie. 
The movie has so much rewatch value in regards to examining mankind's need to create division and how said division resorts to actions that come from a people’s frustration and having to hide their status. Having to hide that they will be viewed a certain way with no hope of getting out of their small box. There are scenes that show how one small event can have different effects on different groups of people. 

Through the framing of the camera from being either tight or loose. To the amount of space presented between each character. Bong shows how there is distance between each character to present how each character is a parasite invading the other ones space. Some parasites are aware of their actions. Some are not aware since they are currently benefitting from the others they have infected.

The consistent addressing of how different people are than you in regards to social economic status rather than wondering why this division has occurred just shows how one group maintains their humanity by taking away the humanity of others. A story about how a family who is close and a family who is distant from each other can all contribute to the problem of others having to hide to survive.
1062. Yorum: My first reaction was to have this as a review —> 🤯
But then I let a few days pass so I could provide a more thoughtful assessment.
New review —> 🤯
1063. Yorum: I just want to say first: This really isn’t a review of Parasite. It’s a very personal and indulgent use of this platform to tell the story of my own grim financial reality, and how it led me to connect deeply with and root for the characters in this amazing film. I think most would consider what I’m sharing here to be the financial equivalent of TMI and majorly cringe in its detailed transparency. I get that. But I’ve really been needing to share about my current situation for awhile now, and I feel I’m running out of time to share it. Experiencing Parasite gave me the opportunity for expressing these thoughts, ideas, and moral imperatives in a (hopefully) meaningful way. Thanks in advance if you read all of this. Trigger warning for mentions of suicidal feelings, but I want to clarify that I’m not actively feeling suicidal right now. Also - spoiler warning for the movie!
It was when Mr. Kim’s son Ki-woo dropped into voiceover, narrating his return to consciousness in the hospital after being very nearly killed or made brain-dead by Geun-se, the crazed final competitor in the grift-off that happened under the noses and within the home of the Park family. That was the moment when I felt that Parasite was the greatest film to ever be released in my adult life, and one that had now become highly personal for me. Ki-woo spoke of the idiot cop and aloof doctor standing over him as he came to and opened his eyes. The cop tries to read Miranda rights to the now awakened defendant, and Ki-woo can’t help but laugh in the faces of this “cop who doesn’t look like a cop” and “doctor who doesn’t look like a doctor.”
“Why don’t they look like their professions?,” I asked myself and right away could answer: Because they don’t know how to do them. Because doing one’s job well just isn’t a thing in this world anymore. And that view of mine isn’t a luddite or MAGA sort of lament about the present compared with the past. It’s quite the opposite: Much like the film Parasite, it’s an interrogation of capitalism. In the circa-2019 vicious and violent capitalism-out-of-control world, doing one’s job well just isn’t worth it. It’s not sustainable.
As I watched and listened to the rest of Ki-woo’s epilogue and stumbled out of the theatre, already decided on buying a ticket to stay and watch the very next showing, all sorts of personal synapses fired off in my brain. Here are just a random few:
1. I thought of stopping at a McDonald’s a few weeks ago, and trying to go inside to use the restroom. It was 10:15pm, and the decals on both doors stated dine-in hours were until midnight and drive-thru hours were 24/7. The doors were locked, but many employees were inside. I knocked and was initially ignored, until a manager mouthed to me that they closed at 10. I really had to piss, and I wasn’t ready to let it go and look elsewhere, so I looked up their number and called them while standing outside to ask what exactly the deal was. The manager told me they had changed the lobby hours from midnight to 10pm a few months ago. I said, “The decals on the doors say midnight.” She said, “That’s true, they do. I need to change those.”
Now, this is the biggest fast food company on earth, constantly busy in small-town america like wal-mart or Target. Their hours had been changed for months, and for months not a single employee walking in and out of those doors every single day — or a single customer, for that matter — stopped and went, “Hey, wait — these hours are wrong. We need to change these.”
That’s how little incentive people have to do their jobs well in this current ugly stage of rampant capitalism.
2. I thought of my mother’s favorite painter, Suzi Gibson-Druly, and her beautifully contemplative, vivid portraits of strong Indigenous women that gazed out from the walls of our home when I was a child. I thought of her because of the Park family’s appropriation of Indigenous tradition for their ultimately tragic birthday party for Da-song (how fitting it was that Parasite ended up hitting many american cities Halloween weekend, when the reminder not to appropriate a marginalized culture is more vital than ever). I also thought of Suzi because of how she died: Over-dosed by rule-following by-the-book doctors who ignored her specific medication limits during a life or death crisis, and ended up killing her by following to a ‘T’ the med school protocol of how the typical patient should be treated. Those doctors and nurses did their jobs badly by doing their jobs the way they’re “supposed to.”
3. I thought of Terrence Howard’s line to Larenz Tate and Ludacris in the worst-movie-to-ever-win-best-picture, Crash: “You embarrass me.” In my more problematic days, I took this line as a moment of important reckoning within different factions of the Black community, but now I see that dialogue for what it really is: A blind-spotted, old-fashioned white liberal idea about the right and wrong ways for Black people to behave — Howard’s straight-laced “proper” Black character modeling the right way, vs. Tate & Luda’s “thug” characters modeling the wrong way.
I realized that the supposed “bad behavior” of the poor, grifting families in Parasite who decide to milk the Parks and their fancy home for all they’re worth is behavior that Crash writer/director Paul Haggis would condemn just as enthusiastically with lines like “you embarrass me.” As if anyone — from the best-intentioned but ultimately misguided “I swear I’m not racist” liberals like Haggis to the ugliest of right-wing racist Karens who call the cops anytime they hear a note of hip hop music on their street or outside their stores — has any right whatsoever to identify the behavior of poor and disenfranchised people in this world as anything but COMPLETELY FUCKING UNDERSTANDABLE. Whether it’s people being louder than you are, or smelling different than you smell, or seeming to have taste that is different from yours (not “bad” taste, though the racist knee-jerk reflex is to call it bad taste — just different taste) — this broken system we’re dying in leaves people desperate, cornered, and optionless. Try their shoes out, if you’re skeptical about that.
4. But most of all, after watching this incredible film my brain and heart finally centered back on my own personal narrative, and where it’s been leading for some time now.
I am reaching the end of my own personal fight with capitalism. There’s very little more effort I feel I can give. This is a perspective, and a part of my story, I often hold close to the chest and feel reluctant to share, because societal pressures and social norms have so often made me feel ashamed and othered for my stance in this regard. But I truly do place this value above nearly all others that I carry with me in my life. In fact, the only other personal value I can think of that is as important to me as the one I’m about to share is the value that, contrary to how my late father’s life played out, I don’t want to leave behind any mysteries for those that knew me to unravel. I want to have lived my life as a (relatively) open book. So, I may as well open up about this.
From age 16, in 1999, to age 29, in 2011, my life was given over full-time to jobs and school — often, both at once. Most people sacrifice at least 50 years of their life, if not more, to work and school. I felt, after 12 years of it, that I had reached my limit. That’s one of the main points of my perspective that I’ve kept close to the chest — because it is so easy for those who have given more of their years to work and school than I have to shame me for reaching my breaking point after such a short time.
My family *was* upper middle class, when my dad was alive. Between investments in the stock market, a pension from working as District Attorney in Erie, PA, and the settlement of a lawsuit following the car accident that paralyzed him when I was three, my dad was the one in my family who was wealthy to the point of six figures. Ironically, he and my family overall were the most affluent during the years when I was paying my own way as a worker bee. My dad helped with my first two years of college, then he and my mom allowed me to drop out to pursue music full-time, and the remainder of my college fund went toward the recording of my first few albums, from 2002–2007. But I paid my own bills, my own rent, and my own way during those years. When I returned to college for another two years in 2008 (after moving to California for the first of several times), I had to take out loans and acrue debt like every other millennial. I dropped out again, just short of my degree, in 2009 to move back east for music and what ended up being my longest romantic relationship.
I put in a few more years of the full-time day job grind AND the full-time local touring grind for music. Then, around the end of the year 2011, in what turned out to be the last chapter of that relationship I’d moved back east for — a chapter that saw my then-girlfriend and I move cross-country in a last-ditch effort to stay together and build a new life as a couple — I left my very last day job and promised myself that I would never work another one for the rest of my life.
With the exception of a few months helping my sister by working the register at her former clothing store for a few months in 2014 (up to the point when my dad died in August of that year), as of this writing, I have kept that promise.
I don’t have a job.
From the time that former relationship finally fizzled in early 2012 until now, I have mostly lived with my family, rent-free. That’s an incredible privilege, and it has allowed me to live out my philosophy about abstaining from day jobs. Another incredible privilege — the greatest of my life, financially, and worst, emotionally: When my dad passed away in 2014, he left behind an inheritance that paid off my student loans and kept me alive for a little over three years — late 2014 to early 2018 — and made it possible for me to continue creating my art, and relocate back out to California, at a time when my joblessness and age were drying up my potential and ability to make a go of it in any realm of life. It was my last gasp of life as a middle class person, and when the last of the inheritance was gone and I was forced to return back to my family’s Ohio homebase in 2018, I faced the reality the rest of my family had been facing without me: We were poor. And in my case, beyond poor…well below the poverty line. I had nothing. In fact, at the end of the inheritance, I stretched my time out west a further six months by opening a few lines of credit and maxing out the cards. That’s right — I was the rare privileged millennial who actually got to kiss his student loan debt GOODBYE…only to end up trading student loan debt for credit card debt.
For the last nearly two years, my financial situation has been a grim (and laughable, to the judgmental eye) status quo: A couple thousand dollars between checking and savings, plus a few guitars worth a couple hundred each, a pair of aging Macs worth a couple hundred each, a record collection worth a couple hundred, and a car that I owned. After a distracted driver ran a red light last fall and totaled the car I owned, I was carless for six months and now am thankful to drive a newer Toyota upon which my mom makes monthly payments.
All of this sounds bleak and scary and pathetic — and it is to me too (except the pathetic part — that’s the societal pressure from others, not my view) — but my life is still a very lucky and privileged one, compared to so many. I live in a small but comfortable house with my mom, step dad, and aunt, and I don’t pay any rent. I sleep in a big, comfortable bed. I am on a family wireless plan. And my mom even helps with my monthly bills — credit card minimums, car insurance, and over $300 a month for health insurance. I’ve run into recurring roadblocks trying to get onto Medicaid, because the burden of paperwork for that coverage demands documentation of self-employment as a musician that I can’t provide. I make around $80 a month from streams and downloads of my recorded body of work on streaming platforms worldwide. Most of that $80 actually comes from myself — one of the facets of my life where I hustle in a way that would make Parasite’s Mr. Kim and his family proud. Spotify doesn’t care where streams come from, even if they come from the very accounts where the content is being made. So I have a 24-hour playlist of my music that I hit play on once a day, and that constant streaming from my own account generates roughly $50 a month. That’s how much money an artist makes from Spotify, if you were ever curious — If one person streams our music literally nonstop, it brings in about $50 a month.
Besides my Spotify playlist trick, I game the system in other small ways, out of the desperation of my financial situation. I’ve become a bit of a “Karen” myself in customer service situations — except, in an effort to offset the terrorizing of people of color by racist white folks in public, I specifically have a rule for myself that I only complain about service from white people. I hold people in customer service situations to the highest of standards. People only get one chance with me. If they fuck up, I complain. I get refunds. I get free stuff. I let people know when I’m not happy. I’ve become “will complain even if you’re really hot and normally I would be shy to say anything at all to you, let alone COMPLAIN to you” years old, apparently.
Most of all, in any and all situations where capitalism comes into play (which is, more and more, every situation and encounter in america), I have come to have the utmost disdain for “company men” — meaning rule followers, by-the-book types, people who do their jobs in a robotic way without any humanity. I don’t suffer fools in these types of situations at all, and if people follow the rules of their jobs to the extent that it leads them to treat me or someone I’m with inhumanely, disrespectfully, or incompetently, I let these people know about their absence of humanity.
I acknowledge the privilege of my life that I can judge them because I’m getting help that prevents me from needing to get jobs like theirs (although that help is a clock that is winding down…more on that at the end), and I acknowledge that sometimes people must follow the rules because they can’t afford to lose their jobs, but I’m sorry — at this point, with the cruelty and callousness I’ve witnessed over the years, I have to prioritize a demand for humanity and respect from others OVER a sympathizing with their plight of needing to keep their jobs. You can do your job, and still be a human being. It’s possible.
So if I’m so hard-line insistent about protecting this value and lifestyle of mine…why, then, did I walk out of Parasite feeling that I would’ve done absolutely anything for the Kim family? Aren’t they being good little capitalists? Isn’t their labyrinthine scheme to suckle the rich tit of the Park family an absolute manifestation of deference to capitalism and the hunger for dollar bills, even if it dehumanizes you in the process? Sure, of course. All of that is there.
But their desperation is a desperation I so completely understand, and because they are people of color on a planet poisoned by whiteness — and because modern day greed-is-good free market capitalism is one of the most toxic inventions of white america that has now spread everywhere — I sympathize with them. I root for them.
I understand the relief Ki-jung seeks when she fishes out her half-empty pack of cigarettes in the Kim family’s flooding bathroom and lights up a smoke, while using her body to hold down the toilet seat and keep the whole town’s sewage from spilling out. By the time that foul, imposing sewage eruption reached her neighborhood, it was sewage without class, without race, without social status. But we, the viewers, remember from where Ki-jung and her father and brother had just run home — the long, downhill descent from the Park family’s privileged little hilltop fortress. That’s where the storm began, and where the rains touched down and began their sliding flood pattern.
Ki-jung sits on the family toilet, keeping all that sewage down, hungry as hell for a smoke, because she knows the truth: All that actually “trickles down” from rich folks is their piss and shit. And if all she’s gonna get from them is their piss and shit, she’s gonna need a smoke.
The same way I’m gonna need to go see movies at the movie theatre regularly, even when I can’t afford it. The same way I’m still gonna buy vinyl at the record store, even though I have enough records. The same way I’m gonna go out to eat every day of the week, when I should only do that on special occasions.
I have no interest in pissing away anymore of my life working day jobs. And when I see examples of the futility of capitalism, and what it does to people, it only reinforces that resolve. Whether it’s seeing someone privileged who was born into money (likely the story of both Mrs. and Mr. Park), or someone who hustles their way toward a dollar (like the Kims), or someone who gets paid well to not do their job very well (like the “cop who doesn’t look like a cop”), or one of the many, many people I’ve encountered who — by dumb luck and the cruel, arbitrary randomness of the universe — have stumbled into obscenely high-paying jobs for which they aren’t qualified…all of these various employment and social status scenarios elicit in me the same disgust, and the same adamant refusal to play ball with any of it.
My mom and others have looked at such financial situations of others and argued to me, “If you can see others getting paid so well for just the tiniest of effort, with just the tiniest of skill, why wouldn’t you just go and do that? If money is out there waiting to be grabbed and you’re as smart as you are and could easily go grab some of it, why wouldn’t you?” I hope the answer is obvious, now that I’ve shared all this. It’s not the cute version of hating capitalism, as perfectly modeled by Timothée Chalamet’s Danny in Lady Bird, who doesn’t really like money and rolls his own cigs and forms a meditation Om with his fingertips when he comes. It’s the real version of that mindset, where you’re so absolutely racked with anxiety after years of being decimated by worrying about money, and you just can’t fucking take it anymore.
There are so many ways in which my life hasn’t played out as I would’ve hoped and predicted in my youth. There are so many times I’ve compromised my values, or sold myself out, or said something I thought I’d never say, or did something I thought I’d never do, or degraded myself. Worst of all, re: the latter — I’ve degraded myself for the people who deserved my degradation the LEAST. You know how you have that handful of people in your life who’ve used you, or gotten a piece of you, or witnessed you at your worst, and if you could go back you’d give that piece of yourself to literally ANYONE but them. For even those most scoundrelous (not a word) of people, I’ve bent over and given it up.
No more. My limit is my limit. My clock has run out on all that degrading fuckery.
I’ve recorded 16 albums in 18 years of adulthood as a songwriter and recording artist. None of them have broken through and made my life financially steady. I’ve run as far with them as I could, while also living with anxiety and depression. I’ve worked as hard as I could in the creation and promotion of my art.
There are people I’ve watched thrive financially with their art who are WAY better than me. AND, there are people I’ve watched thrive financially with their art who aren’t nearly as talented as I am. There are also plenty of people who just simply have a much more easy-going mental disposition for the hustle and grind and networking of it all. These comparisons don’t really matter — they just make me tired. They all lead to the same end point for me philosophically — that I refuse to work for the right to be alive.
But I do want to say, as an aside, because this is a major online pet peeve for me: When we say to each other, via memes, that “your competition isn’t with other people”? YES. IT. IS. That’s precisely how capitalism works, whether we like it or not! It’s what ate the poor families in Parasite, and pit them against each other in their grand and bloody grift-off. So please stop sharing that stupid meme about how our competition is just with our own ego, not with others. It’s really not helpful.
Anyway, that whole reality of my place as an artist and the lack of income from it — that’s only the second-strongest reinforcement of my refusal to work day jobs. The main fuel for my perspective is the destitute financial reality of the people around me — people who played ball their whole lives and have almost nothing to show for it. My step dad is a veteran who killed people for the government as a fighter pilot in Vietnam, and his pension is a measly sum that goes away when he dies. After he’s gone, my mom has next to nothing. He, somehow, doesn’t even have a complimentary military burial coming to him (I didn’t even know that was possible — for any veteran to NOT be eligible for that). My mom worked in media, politics, higher education, and writing fields her whole life and has almost no money put away. She likes to suggest that her financial assistance of both her adult children is what has created this reality, but the truth is — none of her various careers, for which she gave her all, set her up for life BEFORE my sister and I transitioned from dependent kids to broke adults. My aunt had to move here to live with us, because she needs help just like my sister and I, even though she always worked hard and is our parents’ age. My sister lives paycheck to paycheck, and has four sons to support. The only person in my family who had money is dead.
I look around at my friends, and friends of my family, and see the same story everywhere that you see in Parasite: Most people broke and terrified, struggling under the heels of a few pockets of rich folks who hoard way more money than they need or could ever spend — folks who are literally in such a stress-free bubble of comfort and security that they’re BORED with being rich and fetishize the lives of people who struggle (the Parks fingering each other on the couch, talking dirty about an imagined broke, working class life they’ve never had…lol jesus).
So on paper, what remains of the privilege of my life, beyond my privilege of identity as a white person and cis man? About $2000 in the bank, ever-dwindling. My mom’s special savings account she draws from to help me with my bills — there’s enough money in it to help me for about six more months (the clock, winding down). I have the belongings I mentioned earlier, worth a total of maybe two thousand dollars. But I’ve sold entire collections of media so many times in my life, and later regretted it. I can’t stomach the idea of giving up my cherished belongings one more time.
The most promising gas left in my “tank” is what I actually consider the greatest positive part of my life, and it’s also its own form of privilege: The creative muse has never left my side. I still am inspired to write nearly every day of my life. In fact, every November I embark upon a songwriting version of NaNoWriMo and write one song a day for the entire month. Even as destitute and bleak as things are, my fourth year of NaNoWriMo: Songwriting Edition is currently in full swing and going very well. My imperative for myself this year is to write all pop songs — sort of a last-ditch effort at trying to survive financially in this world via music by writing catchy songs that people may actually want to hear or even record! It’s my last, best hope.
There have been suicidal stretches in the past two years when I’ve looked at what little money I have and what I’m “worth” and felt strongly that I should kill myself, for the sake of my family. Because what I’m worth is roughly as much as it would cost for my cremation and the carrying out of my private posthumous wishes, which are important to me. My mom and sister can’t afford to carry out my wishes on their own finances. I don’t want this stuff to be flaked on or screwed up. And I don’t want to leave people with a financial mess, either. I’ll leave behind almost $15,000 in credit card debt, but our debts die with us and that’s a little-known and little-understood fact I learned while dealing with my dad’s estate. You are NOT responsible for your deceased loved one’s debts, and you have EVERY RIGHT to refuse to pay any outstanding bills or debts they have. It’s their name, their now-worthless credit score, their financial legacy. It all dies with them. I just want to make sure people know that.
For capitalism to be so out of control, so toxic, so absolutely to-the-core BAD FOR US that I contemplate my life and feel that, given my prospects, SUICIDE, for the sake of not costing my family money in the wake of my death, is the best option…that really says it all.
But nothing I’ve seen or heard has made this case for the ugliness of this capitalist world better than Parasite. It’s a movie that should be its own revolution. We should see selfies of blacked out eyes posted all over the internet. All over the world! People should be declaring their compassion for and solidarity with all the Kim families of the world, and uniting to take a stand for the political necessity for — the absolute DEMAND of — a living wage paid to every single person just for being alive in this world. Not a wage for work, but a wage for simply existing. We are all owed that, in this sick and broken system we’re trapped in.
And if this film isn’t enough to spark a revolution to help reach that goal of a living wage and a dismantling of capitalism, I hope that whatever has the power to spark it happens soon. Because I am dying, and I don’t have much time left. It’s ok if I don’t live long enough to be saved by the revolution, but I would at least like to see it begin.
1064. Yorum: You can’t have a Host without a Parasite. I tried really hard to come in to this movie cold and based on the name alone I figured it would be one of the Bong science fiction movies like The Host, Okja or Snowpiecer. I didn’t realize it would be one of his straight thrillers like Mother or Memories of a Murder until I was walking up to the ticket counter and heard an old man with his grandson giving him the synopsis of the movie. With a little fast walking past them I was able to avoid everything but “it’s about two families, one rich, one poor and something happens to change everything...” this was one of those movies where I avoided a bathroom break, crossed my legs and gripped the armrests so that I could see what happened next. It certainly doesn’t afford for a bathroom run with one of the longest continuous scenes of suspense I have ever seen that leads to two more successive scenes that only ramp up the intensity on the family. This is a movie that builds the world of the house so perfectly then expands the world to add two more “downstairs-es” to the “upstairs” of the architect’s house.
1065. Yorum: Bruh this is some of the most overhyped crap I’ve ever seen in my life. I live and breathe anime but Korean movies apparently aren’t my thing 

JUST KIDDING. I actually really loved this. It was thrilling, well made, and had absolutely masterful pacing. I would swear that this was like 90 minutes tops. And oh my gosh that final hour is absolutely bunkers. I don’t think I can give this 5 stars until I watch it again and maybe dig into some of the deeper stuff here. 
For now I’m pretty comfortable with 4.5 stars. I honestly thought this would end up like 2001 and I’d just be scratching my head the whole time, but nah this honestly might be worthy of making it into my top 100. Probably after a second watch. There were scenes that had my heart beating like a machine gun.
9/10 (I’ll change my fake out star rating soon lol)
1066. Yorum: 
1067. Yorum: Eat the rich (trial version).
I can't believe this film was on my watchlist for 2 years.
It took me so long to get on board for that I apologize.
It was fantastic storytelling although the plot was too convenient at times that did not affect the quality of the movie because it's just so fun and wholesome to watch.
1068. Yorum: Out of the more than 1000 movies I’ve seen I’ve only given 50 10/10s and 84 9/10s…but giving this a 9/10 almost feels disrespectful. It’s an undeniable masterpiece.

Favorites
1069. Yorum: CRITERION CHALLENGE 2021 — WATCHING 52 CRITERION MOVIES IN ONE WEEK 
#48 — Foreign Language Oscar Winner
Parasite is one of the more recent additions to the criterion collection. I was honestly surprised how quickly movies can be added to the collection, but Parasite is very deserving of it. 
Parasite was first on my radar in the summer of 2019. I had heard some rumblings of it through film Twitter but didn’t think much of it. Only knowing the film by its title, I assumed it was some artistic South Korean horror movie. That year, I went to Telluride film festival (something I talked about in a lot of my other movie reviews) and Parasite was playing there at the festival that year. I was intrigued enough to go watch Parasite at the festival and even inquired about it with the Netflix staff who were taking care of me there and were accommodating with all my needs but unfortunately my schedule was too busy, as each time it was screening I was scheduled to be at an event. BUT, my weekend wasn’t a complete Parasite-less weekend though. While at Telluride, you bump into many different stars who just wander around the town. Like I peed in a bathroom urinal next to Antonio Banderas, I saw Eddie Redmayne and Felicity Jones get silly and have an impromptu photoshoot with a black SUV while I was waiting for My grandpa who was at a party, I kept running into the Safdie Brothers and Adam Sandler at every place I went to... but my favorite celeb sighting that weekend was when I was eating lunch and Bong Joon-Ho and his crew were sitting at the table next to me. This was exciting for me because Bong had directed Snowpiercer which was a movie I fell in love with. And I had a rule that I don’t go up to celebrities if I see one but I seriously was contemplating going up to Bong to say hi. And I thought that the fact my grandpa was with me could’ve made it easier to introduce myself to Bong as well. But I sort of regret not doing that but I probably would’ve humiliated myself anyway, not knowing what to say. But I saw him a few times over the course of the weekend and he seemed to be enjoying his time at Telluride. I was disappointed I didn’t get to see Parasite that weekend, but the day I left, on a Monday, they had a 9am screening and it got so packed that they had to turn away 600 people. 600 PEOPLE AT A 9AM SCREENING ON THE LAST DAY OF THE FESTIVAL WERE TOLD TO LEAVE. Monday is typically the day the festival slows down in viewership because it’s its last day, so fewer people are there. So, when I heard that, it got me even more amped to see this movie. 
Thankfully I live in LA, so I got to see the movie a few months later at an early screening. I still went in trying to know as little as possible, which was the best decision. I remember at times being both baffled and even slightly confused at where the movie was trying to go and then being in total shock. And for me, that is incredibly rare. If you follow me on Letterboxd, you know I watch a ton a movies to the point where it becomes pretty easy for me to predict the outcomes of movies because most movies use the same three act writing structure that makes it easy to predict what’s going on, but Parasite was honestly one of the few times I can say I was unable to predict any of its story reveals. 
In today’s society, it’s incredibly rare for a movie to be universally liked. Even when there’s a movie that gets rave reviews, typically people will start hating the movie JUST because it got great reviews or they’ll consider it overrated because it didn’t live up to their expectations because of the hype. But with Parasite, it feels like the first movies for as long as I can remember, that is universally liked. Sure, there’ll be an occasional person who won’t like it, because it’s impossible for every single person in the world to like one movie, but basically what I’m saying is that I’ve never seen a movie get as much praise on such a high scale as Parasite has in the past year. It’s truly remarkable. And it’ll be interesting to see how it holds up through time too.
1070. Yorum: Previous Review - Here
“Jessica, only child, Illinois, Chicago. Classmate Kim Jin-mo, he's your cousin.”
Finally saw this on the big screen, and it certainly doesn’t disappoint. Even my Girlfriend who was wary going in, came out and said that was fantastic. 
I think it all works so well, and don’t have much more to say. A compelling story that still surprises with its twists on a second watch, constantly intriguing and interesting. I love the total final shifts the movie makes, keeping the audience as off balance as the characters. The film making is fantastic, I noticed so many more subtle meanings and moments that make the film even better. Beautifully shot, compelling, it’s easy to see why this deserved best picture in a year of other fantastic movies.
1071. Yorum: Here’s why I did not love Parasite.
An international film hailed as Best Picture would be historic and incredible. However, despite my inclinations to further recognize foreign-language cinema, Parasite is not my personal Best Picture of 2019. Parasite’s commentary plays it safe, and the result of this safe delivery is the praise the film receives from American liberals and all the privileged and comfortable people from Hollywood and beyond. I do not aim to tear down Parasite’s general acclaim, but I intend to make people more analytical of the film’s political message and to keep them from expecting too much of the message’s implications on society.
Bong Joon-ho intended to depict the status quo of the class divide. “The rich only get richer, and the poor, poorer” as a South Korean news outlet stated. Parasites will attach themselves to their hosts but will eventually suffer and bleed themselves to death. The poor wallowed in sorrow after viciously committing a scam while the rich just fled to another house. Bong said in his interviews that he wanted the coexistence of the rich and the poor, and due to this moderate stance, his film only stops at barely scratching the surface of the divide instead of actually addressing it. It seems that Bong wants a society where the rich and the poor will be kinder to one another, but we do not need a world where everyone is kind while the rich stay rich and the poor stay poor. It is the responsibility of the filmmaker to imagine an alternative and empower the agency of people, not to sink the unfortunate ones deeper in a rut.
Parasite is a well-crafted and thought-provoking film full of twists and chilling moments. Bong’s use of space and the commitment of his actors are remarkable. This intriguing filmmaking piqued the interest of many Westerners and produced a legion of fans called the #BongHive. Yet beneath this skillful cinematic exercise is a seemingly overpolished commentary. “Reflect about it yourself” is the film’s principle. Bong does not really make it clear who the parasites are and how to deal with the class divide. I have read many takes that “there were no villains in the film” or “the poor people are the parasites,” and these tricky opinions are rooted in the lack of clarity and assertiveness of Parasite’s critique.
Shea Vassar, a Native American, also found that Parasite did not make it clear that it was wrong to use Native American regalia as commercialized toys and decorations, and that the film will most likely perpetuate such wrong appropriation to people who are not aware of the long history of Native American suffering. I am not asking the film to spoon-feed us with historical information and propagandistic instructions. I am asking for more grit and less ambiguity. The film is silver-polished to appeal both to the lowest and highest classes — so much status quo is being shown that nothing is being changed anymore. It fails to disturb what it tries to disturb. People move on to daily life’s affairs. Sure, the problem exists, but what are we going to do about it?
The class warfare reaches a violent third act that is almost Tarantino-esque in placement and structure. Yet the lack of narrative foreshadowing and foundation of this jarring bloodshed gives off a sensation of contrivance — of being a tacked-on shock factor just for the sake of having a shock factor. Many viewers found this element of surprise an astonishing feat, but the intention of the film to manipulate shock throws away any kind of subtlety after the riveting flood sequence. The clashing inconsistency continues with an epilogue that features a voiceover entering all of a sudden despite the fact that no other part of the film beforehand has a voiceover narration.
Bong hopes that audiences will share ideas to each other after watching his film, but the only idea that will be shared is the bare existence of social problems — nothing about how to stop the marginalization of the poor or how to dismantle the appropriation of Native American culture. Parasite most likely vilifies wealth, the capitalist system, and cultural appropriation, but after the credits roll, a collective shrug over deeper social issues happens among audiences. Rich people try the expensive beef noodles and intensify the security of their homes after watching the film. The system that is being critiqued is only being reinforced. The choice of the director himself to make the most of his film through an HBO limited series complicates the dilemma even more.
For additional readings, here are the articles that inspired me to write this piece. These are written by reviewers who liked the film but also gave light to the problems I perceived. The writers made me feel that I’m not alone somehow because it becomes quite painful to be mocked just for having a different movie opinion.
zora.medium.com/how-the-movie-parasite-confronts-native-stereotypes-f89ec8399b8c
www.thenation.com/article/parasite-bong-joon-ho-review/
www.theguardian.com/film/2020/feb/05/why-parasite-misses-mark-commentary-south-korean-society
1072. Yorum: De forma brillante Parasite subvierte las expectativas de lo que sería comúnmente una sátira sobre desigualdades sociales; mientras que la mayoría se enfocan en los sufrimientos de la pobreza y establecen un paralelismo entre la opresión de clases, a la conocida fórmula moral de “los pobres son buenos por humildes y los ricos malos por abusivos”, pues bien, el director le da vuelta a estos papeles.
Hay que reírse del pobre por ser pobre, del rico por ser rico y del desgraciado por ser desgraciado. Es esa precisamente su hazaña su capacidad para retratar el absurdo injusto de la realidad haciendo y que el tan solo hecho de contemplarla sea un placer perverso.
Y por supuesto es imposible ignorar el obsesivo perfeccionismo del material ante uno de los trabajos directoriales más pulcros de década.
Durante el desarrollo de la trama no es extraño perder de vista los límites que separan a las personas del escenario y a los mensajes de las palabras, podríamos pasar horas hablando de la anatomía de una escena, pues es un metraje tan obsesionado con el manejo del espacio y con la fuerza de la arquitectura utilizando cada rincón y elemento de la pantalla como analogía social.
1073. Yorum: holy FUCK
1074. Yorum: i'm ready to fight and campaign for this absolute beauty of a masterpiece for the 2020 award season...WHO'S WITH ME???
— added to 2019 - ranked.
1075. Yorum: the very first month of this year feels like an eternity away.
thats when i watched every bong joon ho film, my first few foreign films.
it opened a gate to more movies, i shouldn't contain myself to just english films.
i heard allot of buzz about this movie even before watching it for the first time.
im glad someone recommended me to watch bong's films.
because now im watching allot of foreign films.
even if its a generic opinion, this is still my favorite foreign film.
i know i've changed my number 4 favorite movie allot these past few weeks but thats because 4-7 on my list of favorites are incredible close.
there all so amazing so i don't know wich one to choose.
should i choose come and see?
should i choose parasite?
should i choose look back?
or should i choose high and low?
longlegs, clerks 2 and the thing are definitly solidified as my top 3 but as for my 4th favorite, its a hard choice.
1076. Yorum: This movie is so hyped up you watch it and think it’s going to be overrated, then you watch it and it turns out to be one of the best movies you’ve ever seen.
(My sister Jordan was about to shit her pants)
1077. Yorum: when i'm at the house yeah i'm bumpin' that
1078. Yorum: — Pai, hoje fiz um plano.
As classes desde que o capitalismo foi instaurado foram divididas. Para Karl Marx, é determinado essa dividisão sendo: a classe proletária (qualquer um que recebe salário por um trabalho) e a classe burguesa (qualquer um que apenas usufrui do dinheiro sem trabalhar). Aqui, a divisão é nítida e as vidas das famílias Kim e Park são quase que mundos paralelos, são de realidades extremamente diferentes e a todo instante Bong faz questão de nos lembrar disso.
Seja a composição visual da linha que divide os personagens pobres dos ricos, ou seja a alusão da escada e do cheiro, nós somos obrigados a lembrar dos dois mundos: um vive no conforto, quase (ou praticamente) vivem na cegueira da realidade do mundo a fora e para solucionar a falta de comida na casa basta colocar o empregado para colocar a comida no carrinho enquanto você fala no telefone despretensiosamente; o outro vive numa luta diária, todo dia é uma preocupação, todo dia questionam se haverá comida nos armários e na mesa, se haverá dinheiro na conta e vivendo num lar um tanto desconfortável. Este é o mundo de Seul, mas também é o resto do mundo. 
A família Kim vive encarando as dificuldades sociais todos os dias, estão ligados na realidade e por isso se sobressaem em relação aos Park, logo, enganá-los e empregar toda a família para que uma alta quantidade de dinheiro fosse pra conta da casa se torna uma missão relativamente fácil, relativamente, mas fácil. Porém é nessa ideia que eles se deparam com Moon-gwang e seu marido: na miséria, perseguidos, sem moradia fixa e sugando recursos do lar dos Parks, afinal, é fácil enganar rico. A luta de classes então não ocorre exatamente com ricos e pobres, e sim pobres e pobres. Por um instante até houve uma empatia de Chung-sook em dar comida para o casal, mas a necessidade de manter a mentira foi maior.
São várias necessidades e interesses postos e repostos um sobre outro gerando uma lambança e culminando na cena do massacre no aniversário. A raiva e o cansaço de ver essa segregação enrustida de "bom tratamento com os empregados" leva Ki-taek a matar Dong-ik, ao ver que ele sequer ligou para Geun-se o endeusando e agradecendo. Não importa pra eles se um da estatística os ama, no fim do dia permanacem sendo estatística de censo sobre a pobreza e miséria. O pai até tentou armar o mais perfeito dos planos, mas a imprevisibilidade das mentiras, o segredo recém-descoberto da casa, nada disso estava nos planos, matar Dong-ik e perder Ki-Jung não estava nem de longe nos planos: uma necessidade, interesse e tentativa da família de sair da miséria e das estatísticas do censo.
Ki-woo, um mentiroso nato da família Kim, é o cabeça do plano e o gênio que pensou em empregar toda a família. Sua obsessão e fascínio pela pedra é a crença fiel de que a lenda da pedra (o objeto significaria a saída da família da pobreza) se tornaria realidade, de que a pedra é a iluminação que os Kim precisavam, e que por isso ela o perseguia. Ele a levou de casa após a inundação e tentou confrontar Geun-se e Moon-gwang com ela, no final tudo foi por água abaixo. E no desfecho da obra, acredita em outra lenda: a que irá comprar a mansão e resgatar seu pai. Infelizmente a morte está mais próxima do que a ascensão social para ele.
Juntamente com seu irmão, Ki-Jung é a principal trapaceadora da casa, responsável por convencer os Park com o diploma falso e até mesmo chocar Yeon-kyo sobre a "terapia da arte". Extremamente ativa no plano e continuou o ciclo de recomendações, ela possuía interesses egoístas e dizia querer priorizar o crescimento econômico da família. Usufruiu do prazer que é ser rica e morar naquela mansão extraordinária e então seu fim chegou. A mais esperta porém a primeira a morrer mas jamais esquecida.
Parasita é sobre isso, é sobre como todo mundo tá se parasitando e um precisa do outro, pra sobreviver, pra se entreter, para ter renda ou prazer. É sobre como a vida não permite planos, pois sem planos nada pode dar errado, seria tantas as possibilidades do que pode acontecer se nada for planejado. É sobre como a sociedade tá num ciclo vicioso: o pai é pobre e o filho também, o vizinho tá na miséria então o pai eventualmente fica na miséria também, ou, o Ki-taek foge do caos que se tornou todo aquele plano para o bunker e lá permanece, ocupando o lugar de foragido no subterrâneo de Geun-se já morto; o pai então vive lá pelo resto dos dias, sem uma Moon-gwang para lhe dar comida toda semana, provavelmente até morrendo lá, enquanto definitivamente sabe que não deve esperar por ninguém, apesar do filho estar vivo e lá, planejando mais uma vez o que ele foi aconselhado pelo próprio pai a não fazer: planos.
Obs.: arrastei minha irmã pra ver comigo depois de anos implorando e ela gostou 🙏
1079. Yorum: 
1080. Yorum: la putain de merde de putain de scène d'anniversaire bordel
1081. Yorum: 'modern mansion no mods cc' sims4 gallery type house
1082. Yorum: One of the most brilliant films I’ve ever seen.
Rewatched tonight and it hit even harder the second time. The first 45 minutes of this has this amazing comedic relief, you truly get to know the dynamic between this family and care about them… then comes  the final act, which is so DEVASTATING. 
This film does not comfort you in the slightest with its ending and you are really left with nothing but reflection on the disgusting disparity poor people face. 
Although South Korea and the US are different in numerous ways, the connection between how the upper class views/ fails to even acknowledge those living in poverty feels all too familiar. The rich people in this movie have the dumbest problems ever like for fucks sake they have an “art therapist” for their son. Meanwhile the other family is being pitted against other poor folks just to make enough money to live semi decently.
And when it comes to that final act you understand Kim Ki-taek’s reasoning for doing what he does completely, I myself feel that resentment towards the rich bubbling to the surface more and more.
& RIP Lee Sun-kyun, what a great performance, you will be missed.
1083. Yorum: Since the film has blown up around the 2020 Oscars I haven't managed to rewatch it. So, what better time to finally rewatch Parasite than the night before boarding my plane to Seoul?
Bong Joon-ho has his film bend over backwards to make the audience cheer for the the poor family grift their way up the social hierarchy. So far, so much classic movie magic. The real genius comes into play when the more get to know the affluent family. They are not bad people, although they do have issues. The do not deserve that treatment, no one does, and yet it is just too much fun whenever the two families are together. I am not even starting to list any of the lovely character moments.
Just when you get the hang of the scam and the character relations, the film hypercharges its themes exactly at the midpoint. It is an insane choice, but I think it's a brilliant way to give the story a new spin and more focus. Yet, I also get why my better half was less engaged by the film from that point on. The film asks you to buy quite a few decisions. I am fine with that as long as it results in these razor sharp edits: like when the rich mother strolls through her dressing room, while the poor daughter rummages through donated clothing.
For me, quite a few problems arise during the epilogue. All of a sudden there is narration to visuals that could very easily speak for themselves. The tone is oddly sappy - sorry, I have no more fitting word - which just rubs me the wrong way in the context of the film.
1084. Yorum: bong joon-ho made history. one of the greatest in history, if not, the greatest.
1085. Yorum: very mad at myself that i put off watching this for so long. an awesome critique of neocolonialism, imperialism, and racial capitalism—and the ways in which any and all of us can be implicated in its ongoing violences.
1086. Yorum: da-song: 😋🎂
geun-se: 👁👄👁
da-song: 😳🙄
1087. Yorum: a masterpiece
1088. Yorum: First movie I saw in theaters in the UK!
1089. Yorum: feel like i've been hit over the head w a wealth rock
1090. Yorum: i had no idea what this movie was about before watching it so i literally saw it without knowing ANYTHING not even the plot and without having seen not even a trailer (which definitely was for the best). now im just trying to think about what i just saw........... i don’t even know what to say
1091. Yorum: immediately after this my friend and i got in an elevator with a bunch of strangers from the screening and we went down one floor but then the elevator had what might be called a tantrum and, as one, all of us BOOKED IT outta there and took the fire escape. shouts to bong joon ho for the sense of unity i felt with the wild haired woman who muttered “oh fuck this” when we thought we couldn’t get the elevator open
1092. Yorum: 
1093. Yorum: So Metaphorical.
For many months I have been following the hype that has surrounded Parasite but simultaneously avoiding any plot details or marketing. After dodging spoilers left, right and center, I got tickets to one of the earliest UK screenings I could find and went in blind.
Well, of course, Parasite lived up to the hype and then some.
Intense and hyper-detailed filmmaking from director Bong Joon-ho leaves you on the edge of your seat as you watch the events spiral out of control and get under your skin in unimaginable ways. The downwards fall from rich to poor is symbolised not only in the characters and the camera work but the use of water throughout.
Seeing this in a full cinema with the whole room holding their breath, no idea what is coming next is the ideal setting for a film that demands your full attention.
Hilarious, terrifying, shocking, Parasite shows off the best of cinema can be. Transcending language and cultures to become a modern masterpiece.
1094. Yorum: 🤮
1095. Yorum: A flawless movie
1096. Yorum: Okay, so I’m blown away. My mind is scattered. I don’t even know what to think. Korean movies are insanely good.
Grade: A+
List:
2019: Ranked
1097. Yorum: Another South Korean Masterpiece and one of the best films of the year. Doesn't fit into any one genre as it samples every genre. Great film. Great cast. Great story. Great pacing.
Almost everything starring Song Kango-Ho is damn near a classic in my experience.
10 out of 10
1098. Yorum: when she’s on the toilet smoking a cigarette as literal shit is SPRAYING out of it...best shot of the year
1099. Yorum: Please for the love of cinema, just watch this movie and enjoy. Best movie of 2019 I've seen so far.


- films ranked 2019
1100. Yorum: Gonna violate the Geneva Convention here real quick and say that this was indeed great, but not the greatest thing since ribbed condoms that once again revolutionized our very beings and humanity as we know it like letterboxd seems to suggest. The first hour and half was so incredibly electric and easily the most exhilarating hour and half of narrative that Bong had accomplished in his entire career outside of Memories of Murder because you can’t touch Memories of Murder if you tried. So it’s unfortunate that the last 30+ minutes kind of lost me by going places that others might find only logical and satisfying, but for me truly underwhelming, redundant, and undermines a lot of good buildup work. Like that’s what all this is leading up to? Just like that?
Still, all that seems minor when comparing to just how magnificent the first hour and half was. And after immensely disliking Snowpiercer and Okja it’s so good to see Bong finally return to making native South Korean movies and to form. No one squeezes five genres into one movie and packs it as tightly as he does, after all.
1101. Yorum: God, the writing in this movie is so brilliant and the ending is just as shocking as it was when i watched it for the first time 5 years ago.
1102. Yorum: Parasite is one of the greatest films that I have ever watched. I have been wanting to watch this film for a while, and I am extremely glad that I did. Bong Joon-Ho deserved all of those Oscars for sure. The amount of dedication and hard work is definitely present in this film. Additionally, there are many factors on why Parasite is a masterpiece.
One factor that truly stands out to me about this film has to be the screenplay. The screenplay of this film was well written and paced. To talk more in depth about the plot, Parasite introduces us to the Kim family, who are struggling to keep themselves financially stable. They live in a worn down, one floor home and have to rely on free Wi-Fi to get internet. The Kim family is only able to earn money from folding pizza boxes and selling them. However, a great opportunity happens when Ki-woo’s friend, Min, suggests him for a job. Since Min is leaving to study abroad, he needs him to help tutor this young girl named Da-hye. The way that this plan will work is Ki-woo’s sister using her skills to photoshop the correct documents and identification to prove himself. Next, as he arrives at the house, he is greeted by the housekeeper. This family’s house is known as the Park family. Their house is extremely lavish with numerous rooms and modernistic architecture. He is able to meet Da-hye's mother, who is extremely kind towards him. She wants to experience his lesson, so she goes in and watches the process. As she sees that Ki-woo is an amazing tutor, she gives him extra money. The next day, he explains that he has a cousin who can tutor her son as well. This just leads to each family member playing a part in earning more money. It was so creative that this was their way of tricking the Park family. The plot of this film is just so intriguing because it has so much tension and suspensefulness. The slow buildup for the downfall of the Park family was paced perfectly. Additionally, I want y'all to just watch this plot play out, so I won't talk about the film anymore. The reason why I love this film so much is because every scene is crucial, and you can see how perfectly each character is written.
Another factor that I loved about Parasite has to be its beautiful set of characters. One of my favorite performances of this film has to be Kang ho Song's portrayal of Kim Ki-Taek. As being the father of his family, he wanted to make sure that his family would never have to live in these conditions again. You could see that during moments of tension, his facial expressions were great in highlighting these emotions. The way he was able to use his skills especially with body language added more to the suspense of this film. Another performance that I loved had to be Lee Sun-kyun's portrayal of Park Dong-ik. It was pretty intriguing that he was a CEO of an IT company. I loved the way he delivered his lines because it was so calm. I felt that since he was rich, he had more of this calmer personality because he did not have to worry about much in his life. The last performance that I loved in this film had to be Cho Yeo-jeong's portrayal of Park Yeon-kyo. It was just crazy to see her character in this film. She was extremely nice towards the Park family, and it later resulted in many negative consequences. There are so many other characters and acting performances that I loved in this film, but these are my top three for sure.
The last factor that I loved about this film had to be the gorgeous cinematography and practical effects/set design. To start out with the cinematography, there are so many shots that bring this film onto another level. Some of my favorite shots have to be the wide shots, the close ups, and the group shots. The wide shots highlighted a greater perspective in many scenes. An example of the wide shots that I loved had to be when a certain character would be hiding on the stairs. It was a way to emphasize that they were eavesdropping. This was especially frequent in the Kim family members because they were trying to figure out ways to earn money and live in better conditions. Another shot that I loved had to be the close ups. I loved seeing the range of emotions from happy, frightened, nervous, and shocked. The close up shot of Kim-ki Taek during the birthday party was so influential to the film. The surprised look on his face just added more tension because I did not expect certain events to happen at the end. The remaining scenes were just so shocking to me because it was a pretty big plot twist. Additionally, my last favorite shots have to be the group shots. These types of shots usually have multiple people in it, but I felt that these shots were more impactful when they showed both families. You could see the clear difference because of class separation and the income comparisons. When you see shots of the Kim family, you can see that they are much poorer. The place that they live in is more run down because of the worn out walls, small rooms, and dirty floors. On the other hand, when you look at the Park family, you can see how lavish their lifestyle is. Their house had many rooms, the technology was modern, and the rooms they had looked beautiful. You can see that this film focuses on social disparities and how different social classes live, which is extremely important to see. To talk about the practical effects though, the set design is just beautiful. I loved seeing the city of Seoul, the Kim family's house, and the Park family's house as well. The city of Seoul had different parts including a bustling city and the poorer side, which was where the Kim family lived. The house that they lived in was a great way to focus on the difficulties of living in a place like that. The house that the Park family looked majestic, including the wonderful architecture, security systems, and a fancy kitchen as well. Once y'all watch this film, you will see why these elements are important.
Overall, Parasite is one of my favorite films and such a fantastic watch for the new year. The screenplay was just outstanding and written perfectly. The characters are filled with so many unique qualities and the cinematography is just out of this world. I loved how their chemistry tied in all together to create this wonderful character dynamic for the film itself. Bong Joon-ho is such an amazing director, and I can't wait to see his upcoming film, Mickey-17 with Robert Pattinson. I definitely need to watch his other films. Additionally, I just received the 4K Blu Ray for this film masterpiece, and I cannot wait to watch this on my 4K TV as soon as possible. This is a film that y'all must watch, every aspect of it is just so perfect.
"You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. Got it?" - Kim Ki-taek (Kang ho Song)
1103. Yorum: I first watched Parasite a month after it had won the Palme d’Or. At that stage I’d been looking forward to it as I do most of the winners of that award, and the reviews coming in were generally very positive, which augured well. And at the time I wasn’t disappointed, I enjoyed it a lot, but then it didn’t stick around long in my mind. Another month went by and I saw Portrait of a Lady on Fire, which had also been competing at Cannes, and I thought wow, there’s the film that should have won. But I didn’t begrudge Parasite, because it was a brilliant film in its own right, and just because I have a personal preference for more classical film making doesn't mean I'm right (goddammit). But since then, of course, there’s been an almighty groundswell of hype and love that’s grown around Parasite, which is kind of wonderful, but also confounding because I don’t get it. Anyway, the hype, no doubt helped in part by the Academy Award nominations, has brought the film back into the cinemas, so I went along to a packed house screening for a chance to reappraise. 
I’m always at risk of being a contrarian when it comes to hype, but I had good memories of the film and I expected to like it. And I still did. But it didn’t improve on my first viewing despite the positive atmosphere in the cinema, and if anything it suffered for its lack of surprise, this time around. I'd half-expected the more political aspects dealing with class conflict and inequality to come through more strongly on a second watch, but they didn’t and I actually found them pretty ambiguous and light. I appreciated the score a little more, but in most other respects the film was just as I'd remembered it: a thoroughly entertaining, expertly designed and directed genre mash-up. 
In that sense, the film compares well with Pulp Fiction, another brilliantly directed Palme d’Or winner, that’s thoroughly entertaining and pretty inconsequential. I recall when that came out in 1994 and the incredible buzz that grew around it. People flocked to it like it was the greatest film ever made. And it was pretty great, but it was a film that took established genres as its base, shuffled them together in novel and clever ways, let us go on a joy ride with some engaging low-lifes, surprised us with its shocks, and wrapped it all up with some great writing. Parasite doesn’t have Pulp Fiction’s great writing, but it is a clever and shocking fusion of genres and the effect on audiences has been quite similar. And the fact that it has done that with subtitles and without Hollywood stars is something truly impressive and worth celebrating. 
I guess Parasite's success is just one of those rare things. A film that has struck a collective nerve, and given audiences a visceral thrill at a time when cinema-going is in decline. It has brought audiences together, given them high entertainment value with its shocking twists, and enjoyably despicable characters. Its vague social commentary has felt right for our times, with its simplistic messages, emboldened narcissism and fuck the rich sentiment. And it is really well made so that it feels fresh and alive and brand new, even though it thrives like its namesake on established genre expectations. But at its core it is a comedy of manners, mashed with action and horror, and on my rewatch I didn’t laugh once, and the horror was less effective without its element of surprise, and the great flood scene felt stranded as a too brief high point. So, while it won't matter to its devotees what I think, I just don't believe it fully deserves the hype. I am, however, pleased it has made people get off their phones, flock to the cinema and see a foreign language film. Overall, you could say I’m kind of happily disappointed. I’ll settle for that.
1104. Yorum: Parasite: The highest rated movie on Letterboxd
The reaction to the overwhelming praise of Parasite has been interesting to watch unfold. It has become one of the most hyped up films in recent memory. It went from it’s Cannes premiere where it got insanely high reviews and won the Palme D'or, the first Korean film to ever do so. before building up more and more hype, releasing sporadically across the world (and the web). Practically everybody I knew on Letterboxd was giving this a 10/10, it was getting fantastic critical reviews. This all added up and eventually, Parasite climbed the Top 250 and beat out the big boi, The Godfather, to become the new king of Letterboxd. 
Several people have mixed thoughts about this, some say it’s being overhyped, which is fair to say. It’s bizarre that it’s been held to such high regard and is held to the level of The Godfather not even a year after it’s release. The reason The Godfather was up there was a) cause it’s very good and b) because it’s built this legacy surrounding it where it’s stood the test of time as an iconic piece of cinema that’s shaped the medium as we know it.
Parasite doesn’t have that, in fact, it's still barely even been released yet. And yes, it is a little overhyped. Not to devalue any of the praise it’s been getting, and I’m definitely not saying we’re gonna look back on it and go “this SUCKS!!” But it’s certainly a rapid amount of time for this movie to rise to such acclaim. But I honestly kinda welcome it. I welcome that we’re embracing more modern movies to the same level as these untouchable titans of cinema. The top 250 is dominated by these classic films from the 60’s and 70’s, which are pretty much all great movies, but film evolves and changes, which is why it’s such an exciting medium and there should be more movies in there that’s recognized as such. Granted, I think the reason that there’s way more 2019 films getting into the Top 250 this year is more based on the number of users on Letterboxd jumping up, but nonetheless, it’s still exciting to embrace change, even though it’s really just a fairly meaningless statistic that isn’t indicative of actual fact. The Godfather is not the peak of all cinema, it’s not the best movie that's ever going to be made, this shift was inevitable.
So when I saw Odeon were holding one of their Screen Unseen events and it was marked as being a subtitled film, I immediately knew it had to be Parasite. I couldn’t believe it to be true, I kept doubting it even as I sat down in the cinema, but there it was, up on the screen. I could've so easily just found the high quality leak online and watched it again at home, but I had the rare opportunity to watch a film like Parasite on the big screen for once, and I am so glad I made that choice.
Parasite is more than deserving of the praise it's receiving. It's a complete and utter masterpiece, which is saying a lot coming from a director who consistently has put out incredible movies for years, it's incredible that even after all of that he still manages to top himself by creating this thoughtful, hilarious, intensely dark and tragic tale around class and identity.
The way this movie depicts its class divides blows my mind. These two families act as mirror images of one another, one living in this isolated, immaculate modern mansion, the other living in a dingey, grimy sub-basement home overlooking a bustling city street. One are blissfully ignorant, the other are constantly scheming and have intricate plans in action. One smells, the other doesn't. These class divisions are told so well throughout the story, but it never feels like it's directly told you this, rather naturally inferred just through the story of the movie. 
There's certain little moments that reflect this class divisions in fantastic ways. A little rain to the Parks is just a mild inconvenience and are unaffected by it, but for the Kim’s that same rain completely floods their house and forces them to sleep in a packed gym for the night. 
What I love is that the Parks aren't evil because they're rich. In a lesser film, it'd be so easy just to say that Mr Park is evil and a bad father or the kids are little shits, but that's not what this movie does. Mr Park is a good dad, Yeon-kyo is a kind mother, the kids are fine. They're not bad people, their flaw is just being gullible and ignorant. But that ignorance isn't born out of a place of contempt, it's just that they're in a position where they don't have to worry about it. They don't have to care about the poor and can live within their bubble of money and perfection.
The Kim family are really the ones who're in the wrong. At first it's simply them taking advantage of this families blissful ignorance of their web of lies, but as it goes on they begin to really show this animalistic survival instinct to work their way into this home, where they set up people, harm them, manipulate them. They do some awful shit, but again it all linked into the class warfare. This opportunity is allowing them to escape from poverty, which is such a rare opportunity for them, so they fight for it at every opportunity. It's clear they feel a level of empathy about what they're doing, they all have moments of compassion towards those who they’re harming, but they always justify their actions with a survival of the fittest mentally, where if it's not us in this position, somebody else will take their place, and that's exactly what they inadvertently did.
The bunker twist is one of the best twists I've ever seen in a movie, so much so that I don't even want to talk about it here (A reminder; SPOILERS!) Having this hit out of nowhere is such a clever twist that plays so thematically well into the themes and ideas. Having essentially the same basement as The Kim's have, one that's totally buried under this pristine paradise, that nobody even realised was there all along is genius. It's further mirrors the ignorance of the upper-class to the poor struggles, and it furthers that idea of the lower class having to fight amongst each other for survival while the rich have to fight for nothing. 
And the final epilogue is heartbreaking. The garden massacre is framed as being inevitable, even without Geun-De rising up to kill the Kims, the act of Ki-taek killing Mr Park feels like it was destined to happen. Ki-taek begins to become deeply frustrated with the class division between them. He starts to fully notice the extent of their ignorance, how they treat the lower class like afterthoughts, completely disregarding their struggles or plights.
And then there's the smell. The smell is this unshakeable divide between the two. Even when Ki-taek wears this suit, acts like this high class driver, there's always this unshakeable scent reminding him and the rich that he is different and will never be able to fit within that world. As well as that, it reveals the true nature of Mr Park’s destain for the lower-class, when he is seen to be disgusted by the smell, and by nature, the lower class too. So when Mr Park asks Ki-taek to serve his needs in a moment where he's holding his dying daughter in his arms, he snaps and kills him. It's an unexpected moment of violence that brings no sense of cathartic relief or a sense of revenge, it's just an outburst of anger at the system that creates these divides.
And the fucking ENDING, holy shit. Not only is having Ki-taek take the role from Geun-de as a slave to this house underground, with no hope other than with his morse code letter to his son. But then Ki-woo’s letter back is such a melancholic way to end this movie. It plays into this false pretense that you can work your way up the ladder of class and the class system is a meritocracy. This could be left as an ambiguous ending of whether or not the scene of Ki-taek emerging from the basement to reunite his son was real, but Bong doesn't even let it stay ambiguous, he immediately shows that it's all a fantasy, it's ultimately a tragedy in the end, a tragedy completely predicated by the class system.
After having now seen more of Bong Joon-Ho’s work before seeing it this second time, it helped me go in with a better understanding of him as a director and his general style. He’s a director who is able to so elegantly balance tone, in fact he's one of the best directors in this regard. All of his movies could be viewed as black comedies, however they all are able to still maintain strong, emotional, dramatic hooks. Yes, Parasite is insanely funny, (and seeing it with a crowd, who laughed along a lot made me realise just how funny it is) but that comedy never takes weight away from the drama, the themes, the characters and in fact it's used to build all these elements.
Another great thing about Bong’s work is that he’s able to draw from other genres and ideas, but morph them into something fresh. The Host is a monster movie, Memories of Murder is a detective mystery, Okja is a E.T type story, but he doesn't just take those basic formulas, he builds on them with his own commentary and ideas. At times Parasite feels like a heist movie, with these montages of the Kims creating these intricate plans to work their way into this household, as well as them having to later escape from the house stealthily in one of the tensest scenes I've ever seen.
Bong Joon-ho’s direction feels effortless, but it's not, it's clear he puts so much care and detail into every portion of the movie. Everything in the script comes back in some way or has some purpose, the rhythm and energy of scenes feels completely captivating. Hell, the fact that he went and got this house built from the ground up for this movie, just so he could carefully plan out shots and blocking and mould the house around the visual storytelling of the filmmaking is astounding, especially when it took me several months after seeing it to even realise that was the case.
Also, a lot has to be given to the performances. The chemistry and dynamic between the Kims is phenomenal, every single actor here kills it. Song Kang-ho, a frequent collaborator with Bong Joon-ho, is fantastic and gives the best performance I've seen from him yet. Watching this a day after seeing his character in The Host just proves how diverse of an actor he is. There's the son, Ki-woo, played by Choi Woo-Shik, who also does an incredible job. There's the sister played by Park So-dam, who is my favorite character just due to how funny she is and incredibly blunt she is throughout. 
The score by Jung Jaeil is fantastic, it utilises a lot of strings and piano and creates these beautiful pieces that fit so perfectly alongside the film.
Also, which I just discovered, Parasite has an original song in the credits. It's called Sojo One Glass which plays in the credits and it's sung by the actor who plays Ki-woo. It’s on the shortlist for Best Original Song at the Oscars and now I desperately want it to win.
Also, seeing it on the big screen was great just to hear it through cinema speakers. Hearing the immense thuds of attacks, the chaotic rainfalls that rip through the mix. It's got great sound design at play and I would be happy with it winning that at awards shows.
I guess the summary here is that as we come into awards season, I want Parasite to win everything. Every Oscar category, it deserves to win it all. As amazing as that'd be, that's pretty unrealistic and with the way Roma got snubbed last year, I'm worried about Parasites chances. Regardless of awards though, I know this movie is going to be celebrated, it's going to be remembered, it's going to have an impact on film. It may be overhyped to an extent, but I don't think it's unjust. Parasite is a complete and utter achievement in filmmaking and gives us a movie that feels genuinely fresh and original that is destined to become a classic. 
Suffice to say, it's my favorite film of the year, and I do not see that being topped. I have genuinely considered putting it in my top 4, but I'll wait until the hype has died down a little and maybe it'll go there on a 3rd watch. But the fact that I even got to see it in cinemas is such a blessing, it's so rare that a forgien language film ever plays in cinemas, this is the first time I saw one on the big screen and getting to see it there was maybe one of my favorite cinema experiences I've ever had, by the end of it I was left grinning like a little fucking idiot.
So yeah, Bonghive rise up!
1105. Yorum: 
1106. Yorum: Not knowing what the actual fuck this movie was about until entering the cinema hall was a fantastic sensation.
Discovering that i still didn't know what the fuck the movie is about halfway through it was probably even better.
1107. Yorum: “Respect!”
Gives you lots to chew on, but also completely works as a twisted dark comedy. Even labeling it a dark comedy doesn’t fully do it justice; Joon-ho tackles several genres but despite potentially jarring tonal whiplash, he always seems in complete control. This hooked me from the start and had me glued to the screen wanting to see what happens next. So good.
1108. Yorum: You have no clue how long I wanted to see this movie. I had tickets at my local theater a few weeks ago but they canceled it for some reason. Today, I finally found a theater less then 50 miles away that was playing it so I made the trek down there to see it. 
This film is awesome. There was very little I noticed I didn’t like. It’s seriously a great movie. 
I’m going to say very little because I think every one should experience this movie with little knowledge. 
My favorite part was how the director blended comedy and being serous, it flows perfectly. 
There’s seriously so much I want to talk about but I don’t want to ruin this movie for anyone. See this is you have the chance.
1109. Yorum: Well, thank gosh things are finally starting to live up to their hype this year! At this point in his career, it's definitely time to be putting Bong's name up their with the greatest directors and storytellers of all time. Parasite is perfectly plotted and executed to the point where my whole theater was giddy with excitement after every single twist and turn. The dialogue is incredibly witty and, after his English stint, much funnier than I had expected it to be.
The thing that really sets this into the upper echelon for me this year is the amount of heart it displays in every crevice that you can scour. Other than the metaphors that are to be duh into about classism and many other subjects that I will expand upon for my second viewing, the characters are all very interesting and for a film that revolves a family and has a runtime that only slightly eclipses two hours, I felt as if I had a thorough understanding over every individual and how they work into the family dynamic.
Now, I've said so much overly positive praise for this film, at this point you must be questioning why my rating is an eight and not a nine, or even perhaps a ten. Well, my main gripe, and it is a very large one, is the inconsistency in the intelligence of the characters. Let's just say that there are some decisions that the characters make that display a very strong intellect. Yet for the inciting incident of the film, they act like bumbling idiots, and it is completely infuriating to see. Now, the argument could be made that "it's how normal people act, by making mistakes." I can get on board with this in films such as Green Room where they are literally everyday people thrust into a situation. However, in Parasite, the family is meticulously crafting their every move and the fact that they cant think on their feet for one moment seems rather suspicious to me. Oh, and uh, also, there was a bit where I would have preferred more action and it was a tad one note in tone.
As much as I wrote about this in a negative manner, it's still an absolutely synchronic and engulfing experience that left me hanging off the edge for the majority of the runtime. An absolute pleasure that can be recommended to absolutely everyone.
1110. Yorum: the dance of freedom. the death bells. the lighting of the Bong (Joon-Ho)
one of the most magnificent, sublime, monumental, extraordinary scenes in cinema history
1111. Yorum: A showstopper. Whatever triviality is occupying your head will suddenly be blown out the tailpipe with Parasite. Bong has taken control of the asylum and is now shooting 100 proof cinema into the arms of the patients. A conductor commanding a symphony. Any doubt that he's in the director hall of fame goes "poof" with Parasite.
1112. Yorum: When a film gets as much hype as this one has received, I’m instantly suspicious and convince myself I’ll be disappointed in it. I’ve never been so glad to be wrong. Parasite does NOT disappoint. I’m so glad I went in with no real ideas of the plot, having avoided the trailers, and generally not really having any expectations on what I was about to see. It was mind-blowing, hilarious, diabolical and tragic all rolled into one. I saw it hours ago and haven’t been able to stop thinking about it enough to write my initial, spoiler-free reactions. Best film I’ve seen from 2019 so far, I think.
1113. Yorum: how can one even begin to review this
1114. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho once again returns to the outrage of society as he tells the story of an opportune lower-class family interweaving themselves within the domesticated space of a wealthier counterpart, contrasting their socioeconomic parallels in this darkly comedic tale.
What initially feels like moments of humorous deviousness from this lower-class family, eventually morphs itself into territories of rage, confrontation, and social injustice. It isn’t afraid to reveal the darkness that potentially lurks within the human spirit, a quality often found in Bong’s work, and how fragile that barrier ultimately is.
This atmosphere of darkness and societal distinction are highlighted through the various settings that its story navigates, treading in spaces like basements, gutters, and tunnels. The camerawork is showcased to be precise in its execution as it vigilantly tracks its characters through various settings and spaces, allowing his lavishly built set to flourish in the camera’s kinetic dance across hallways and vast rooms.
Artificiality and illegitimacy are also placed under question, with our protagonists lie and cheat their way into success while ensuring a grey area is relatively maintained that validates our desire to see them thrive with their wilful spirit. This makes Parasite quite a complex and contemplative tale despite the emphasis on the distasteful attributes of the human condition. Bong puts all of these resonating themes in a narrative casing that stimulates our thoughts but also intends and manages to entertain his audience.
Parasite finds itself coming to a conclusion that is bittersweet, a profound effect that left me in a complete surprise despite already knowing Bong’s tendency to lean towards such directions. As I sat through it, elements of Akira Kurosawa’s High and Low began to reveal themselves in the social commentary it shares towards Korea, however, never for a moment did it feel like I was watching something being directly replicated from another auteur. What we are served here is pure-bred Bong, a cinematic vision so distinct that one could probably feel it being so within the first couple of minutes.
1115. Yorum: everything at the end of this movie is appropriate punishment for getting freaky on the couch
1116. Yorum: This is a tale about the Kim family, they live in a small apartment and have to climb to get wifi. They are charming people but of course they desire for more as bills are going unpaid and they'd love some good wifi. Things start took look up when they are given a rock of fortune. First eldest son lands a sweet tutoring job working for the rich Park family tutoring their daughter. Never one to seize an opportunity he works to help elevate the other members of his family by finding them jobs as well. It is pretty darned entertaining, as nearly everyone is acting dubiously. I can definitely see why this has mass appeal, the characters are very well-written and the scheme is impressive. It's also beautifully filmed, and well-paced despite being over two hours long. It does have it's moments as a thriller as well but it mostly seems a statement about class.
1117. Yorum: a ideia do filme é brilhante, traz a realidade da sociedade de todos os tempos, pessoas pobres que não tem o por onde recorrer, não tem um teto e nem o que comer procurando de qualquer forma conseguir algo a prosperar ou alguma forma de se sentir confortável, e nesse mesmo momento pessoas que tem tudo isso em abundância esquecem dos outros menos favorecidos pensando apenas em si mesmo.
mostra e nos dá uma lição para pensar no próximo, ser menos egoísta, evitar desperdício e muitas outras coisas.
filme muito bom que prende e cheio de emoções.
1118. Yorum: 
1119. Yorum: “they’re nice because they’re rich”
this is not the movie I thought I’d be rewatching on a Monday night but here we are! I was scrolling through HBO max looking for smth to watch and saw that parasite was just added and I was like fuck it why not! I started it last night but finished the last 35 minutes today and wow this is such a movie. like Harry styles said “I love when I can watch a movie and have it feel like a movie” or smth along those words. Parasite is just THAT movie like oh my goodness. everyone did so well. the acting, the pacing, THE PLOT??? THE ENDING??? yeah. everything was done just so so so so so so well and just really makes me think about humanity as a whole like….something like this happening is soo very possible which is so crazy to me. this movie is absolutely incredible and I love it so much. EVERYONE ACTED THEIR ASSES OFF!! ALL ARE STARS!!! and 1000% deserved that oscar and standing ovation. 10000/10.
1120. Yorum: My rating: 10/10
1121. Yorum: a bitter social critique that knows how to surprise and amuse. shows mastery of cinematic language and a disarming ease in changing tone and genre.
1122. Yorum: Começando mais um ano e, comemorando 1 ano de letterboxd, que melhor forma seria senão assistir a um dos melhores filmes dos últimos tempos. Finalmente pagando essa pendência cinematográfica e, que filme maravilhoso. As questões levantadas sobre as diferenças sociais, os descasos com os mais pobres e vulneráveis, a ansia da busca incansável da riqueza a qualquer custo e por ai vai. Tudo isso combinado com ótimas atuações e uma direção incrível. Maravilhoso
1123. Yorum: okay, for the fourth time, those who rated this movie 4 or 4.5, WHAT MORE COULD YOU POSSIBLY WANT??
1124. Yorum: first time watching this outside of a theater (because i lacked self-control in 2019 and saw this three times in the theater in less than two months...lol) and kept whispering involuntarily "it's so fucking good" every few minutes, like this script is such a banger!!!! it continues to be a banger!!! kinda wanna go put hot sauce on pizza rn!!!!
1125. Yorum: peak cinema, EVERYTHING is perfect
Complex but effortlessly executed. Interesting themes/ideas. Brilliant screenplay. Masterfully directed. Outstanding acting. Perfectly paced. Flawless editing. Amazing cinematography with subtle visual storytelling. Three-dimensional characters, many and you care for them ALL. Beautiful production design. Satisfying climax. You laugh, you cry, it blows your mind.
I can’t say enough good things about this film.
1126. Yorum: One of the best movies i've ever seen
1127. Yorum: so many feet sounds
1128. Yorum: Only my second watch, my first one being at the cinemas over a year ago. This film is still phenomenal. There's so much personal style and flair but it doesn't feel overdone or out of place as the directorial flourishes contribute to the films themes and tone. This film is such a wild ride. It's charming, thrilling and has a lot to say.
Sidenote; After being more versed in Korean cinema I now understand why Song Kang-Ho being taught how to act is hilarious.
1129. Yorum: Nothing to see here 👨‍🦯just adding that half star I forgot last time.
1130. Yorum: yeah i fucking love this movie, it’s genius 
also i need to watch the black and white release asap
1131. Yorum: 
1132. Yorum: Wow! This is one of the most well made films I think I’ve ever seen! Each shot, each character, each line! And the story is so unique and allows for some smart events!
All the cast are great! I never felt that anyone was off! Both families were as believable as each other! The script is amazing! It’s so well thought out! I also loved the take in class divide which showed that some families would go the extra length for money! The film is also hilarious! I laughed out loud several times! You really don’t expect this film to be funny but you bet it is! The transition from light to dark is also very well done as it’s not forced upon you, it more takes it time! The suspense is high in this film, I was on the edge of my seat constantly! 
The music was perfect! Sometimes it was really subtle to kind of show the atmosphere of the scene and sometimes it was ambitious to try and show you how serious the film got! The directing was unbelievably good! There’s always something going on or something that relates to another scene! I really want to watch more Bong Joon Ho films! The cinematography is also something to behold as the brightness is coordinated masterfully! And that house was so nice!
Overall Parasite is basically a perfect movie! I can definitely see why it won Best Picture! If you’re a film fan then you need to watch it as soon as possible! I suspect this movie will be shown in film classes and schools for generations as it deserves to be because it’s a masterpiece!
1133. Yorum: This movie is just as good as everyone says it is and more than deserving of all of the praise it has received!
1134. Yorum: Watched with Tom!! 🚀.
I completely understand the hype for Parasite, but I feel that its popularity is based on a mixture of Bong having successfully built up a reputation over the years, breaking into the western scene most recently, having the right distributors attached, and ultimately presenting people with a film that is original and surprising.
However, original + surprising does not necessarily a good film make.
I think I would say I'm a fan of Bong. He's a very talented guy and I think I would say I "like" all of his work, though I also would say he's only made two "great" films (The Host and Memories of Murder), one good film (Mother) and two other problematic, but enjoyable, films (Snowpiercer, and Okja). I chalked the latter two up to being chiefly in English, and assumed that he was probably more comfortable directing/writing in his own language. Now that I've seen Parasite I feel like I know that his apparent talent for juggling tones is at least in part a fluke, because it only really works in Memories and The Host - his other films are enjoyable but not nearly as consistent tonally, and Parasite has got to be the biggest offender.
The first half is gold and, had it stuck on the path it was on, would have made for a good dramedy, but I knew Bong wouldn't leave it there (I also knew there had to be a reason beyond it being "good" in order for it to garner the attention it has). And I was right, because Parasite soon goes in "unexpected" directions. It gets hella dark, unpredictable and the tone completely shifts, making for a memorable experience but an uneven and unsatisfying film on the whole. What's good for making an impact, isn't necessarily beneficial to the narrative. It feels like two films, and while the story is woven in a way that means the later plot points are well set up, it doesn't do a good job of setting the tone. You can't just leap from one genre to another like that, at least not without good reason. I don't think Parasite has any good reason not to give some tonal hint early on in order to prepare the viewer for where things are building. Doing that doesn't spoil the surprise, it doesn't harm the plot - it's called foreshadowing. Narrative foreshadowing prevents annoyances like Deus Ex Machinas, and tonal foreshadowing prevents tonal whiplash. Setting an accurate tone right at the start of the film enables the viewer to stay locked into the narrative and not get taken out when things shift completely. Being taken out of the film is not a good way to "shock" your audience.
Another thing that Parasite should have established earlier is voice-over narration. The film is not only from one person's perspective; we've been following multiple characters, there's been no narration at all - so why suddenly bring it in at the end? It just comes across as lazy writing, allowing for an easy montage, when the audience should be brought up to speed with events using the narrative tools that have already been established.
But hey, credit where credit is due. It looks fantastic, it's funny and it still has a lot of what I love about Bong and a lot of what I've missed from his Korean language films. There's much that I appreciated and enjoyed narratively, thematically and visually; it's just a shame that it didn't live up to the hype. Without a doubt, Parasite contains some of his best work to date, but for everything that shines, it's hard to forgive how messy the final act is.
(Sorry, Tom. I lied. I am disappointed.)
Anyway, I'll keep watching Bong's films as long as Bong keeps making films, keenly waiting/hoping for the next Memories of Murder.
1135. Yorum: ☆"Respect!"☆
One more viewing ahead of awards night!
I'm rewatching my three favorite narrative Oscar nominees -- I ranked them all here -- before the big show this Sunday. (For those keeping track, the other two were The Irishman and Marriage Story.)
Parasite of course is my favorite movie of the year, and also honestly one of the best films I have ever seen. (I've seen a lot, mind you, though many many more to go for sure.) This is my first home viewing -- after the initial one over three months ago in theatres, then an exciting rewatch as it was shown in my hometown for the first time -- but it is no less incredible, no less revelatory, no less game changing cinema by the brilliant Korean auteur Bong Joon-ho.
I'm not sure what more I can say about this amazing film. So instead I'll focus on the awards consideration. After all, that's why I have this movie in possession in the first place, as a screener provided from Neon for consideration in the Film Independent Spirit Awards. They were on last night; I hope you watched them! Parasite won! Well, the only award it was nominated for, Best International Film. At the least, I hope you saw Adam Sandler's brilliant speech, trending today for his win for Uncut Gems.
Anyway, so, about the Oscars. Like I said this morning, you can't have it both ways, people: either the Oscars are important industry and cultural marks which are relevant, or they're pointless and "true cinephiles" don't care about them. In other words, fine, go ahead and call them irrelevant if you want. But that means you're not allowed to complain about them, ever. I on the other hand find them to be of great value, especially to people not crazy enough to watch 37 of the 38 feature-length nominees like I did. This is how the viewing public hears about good films, many of them anyway. So the nominations matter, for the audience and most importantly for those who worked on the film.
(This is where I would normally lash out at you cheapskates who stole this movie last year. Get bent, thieves. Support good films.)
As many of you know, Parasite did earn six nominations, well-deserved ones: Best Director, Best International Feature Film, Best Original Screenplay, Best Production Design, Best Film Editing, and incredibly Best Picture. Though you all know me as genial and positive here, in real life I'm often quite pessimistic. It's why I don't predict any wins except for International Film. Oh I would vote for all the others, without question, but I just feel like a couple other films -- notably 1917 and Once Upon a Time in Hollywood -- which have taken up a lot of the oxygen in awards discussion this winter. I really liked those two movies, a lot! But it would be so amazing, so groundbreaking, for a foreign feature to earn the accolades it deserves. I can only hope, though I have my doubts.
Because remember, like Kim Ki-taek said, "If you make a plan, life never works out that way." So I have no plan tonight. Just gonna let the cards fall where they may. Enjoy the show, friends.
☆"Take care until then. So long."☆
Added to The Best Narrative Films of 2019.
Added to 2020 Independent Spirit Awards nominees, ranked.
Added to 2020 Academy Awards nominees, ranked.
Added to Bong Joon-ho ranked.
Added to My Subjective List of the Best Narrative Films.
Added to My Subjective List of the Best Films from Every Year I've Seen Them.
1136. Yorum: do rich people deserve rights? lets discuss
1137. Yorum: holy shit they really ate the rich
im absolutely speechless by this and if it doesn’t win best picture idk what i’ll do. probably delete my letterboxd and never watch movies ever again.
1138. Yorum: Alright, time for the second movie of the day. While I may not have fallen in love with Parasite as much as everyone else has, I still can't find a flaw in this incredibly well-made movie. It's an intriguing study of class that somehow seamlessly switches tones about halfway through the movie but that is engaging all the way through. I can't necessarily speak as to how well the nuances of the written dialogue and line deliveries were executed since I don't speak Korean, but all the way through, it was a total blast seeing the main family figure out how to survive with barely any money. Watching them slowly worm their way into getting more money is incredibly intriguing to watch and kept me engaged throughout the entire movie.
I'll be honest, while I thought the direction was pretty good overall, it didn't start to truly impress me until about the point when this movie switches tones. Most of the shots feels incredibly calm and still for the first half, but once things start getting more and more intense, the camera angles and the way that the scenes are filmed starts to change and it becomes a much more intensely helmed movie. The colors surrounding the main house are absolutely gorgeous, and there's a sequence where the main family is running through the South Korean slums that looks incredible. Overall, the cinematography and the way this film looks did impress me, it just took a bit.
This film also has some great humor sprinkled throughout it. There's something really charming about the way these families interact with each other and the one-liners they deliver are really great. The actors don't feel like they're acting. It feels like we're watching real events unfold, and that makes it even more engaging. The film gets more and more intense as it goes on with more and more drama cropping up between the main families until a final sequence that I absolutely didn't see coming at all. It was a shift in tone that I didn't expect and I really respected the movie for that shift.
Much like Inception, Parasite was one of those movies that I hoped I would love but didn't know if I would. However, after watching it, I can thankfully say that I think this film is incredibly well-crafted. Again, I'm not as head-over-heels for it as so many other people are (much like Marriage Story, actually, after thinking about it for a while), but despite that, I can't think of a single thing wrong with this movie's story, and for that, I don't see any reason to take away points. This is a well-crafted class study that definitely deserves all of the attention and praise it's gotten.
Letter Grade: A+
1139. Yorum: Grade: MASTERPIECE (5 out of 5)
Link to Original Review
The only thing different from my original viewing (linked above) and my second viewing, is that Parasite is actually better than I remember.
This film deserves all the awards.
All of them.
🏆
1140. Yorum: It starts off as a clever bit of social satire, and then it gets darker. And then much darker still. Really, it's one of those movies that is best experienced with as little foreknowledge as possible, as it takes some surprising turns along the way.
Between this and 'Snowpiercer', it's clear that Bong is one of the sharpest critics of late capitalism around. It's also on my shortlist for film of the year.
1141. Yorum: This movie is brilliant. It’s truly unlike anything I’ve seen this year and I want to be so vague in this review as to not spoil it cause I’d say it’s best to go in with as little knowledge as possible. 
It’s directed, acted, shot, scored, and edited with amazing precision. It is incredibly funny but also has some thrilling moments and memorable story beats that really subvert expectations. Whatever you think Parasite is going to be,’it will be something else entirely but just as good as what you were hoping for. 
It’s definitely a favorite of 2019 and along with some other gems that have come out in the last 10 months or so, we’re rounding out the decade with a very strong year for film. Don’t miss this one but also avoid as much info as you can about it.
1142. Yorum: Parasite reminded me of Aronofsky's mother! in the sense that it thinks it is making a deep and nuanced social critique, while in reality it is annoyingly throwing the obvious point it wants to make in your face in the first ten minutes. Directors that treat their audience like they can't figure out the message by themselves rarely manage to make me connect with their films. Of all the films about class struggles, capitalism, and inequalities, this isn't even by far one of the most accomplished and powerful.
The thing that annoyed me the most isn't how blatantly obvious and redundant the social critique is, but how lazy it is. Is it really enough to say that rich people are bad and poor people are good until they reach a breaking point to make a universally praised film? I can understand the praise for the technical elements, but that's about it. What interesting thoughts or ideas did this film bring to the table? Did it make you think about the state of the world? Because let me tell you, if you found this film deep and thought-provoking, chances are you are living in a fantasy world.
Also, what is this recent tendency to make a normal, decent film, and then suddenly about halfway through it to turn it into a shitshow of violence for violence's sake, with no point to make, and nothing to add to the central plot? I was already tired of it when Drive came out, now it's just plain predictable. I started sensing something like this would happen as soon as the old housekeeper rang the doorbell. What was the point of the violence anyway? If you're making a film about a social critique, trying to make a statement, you don't need to turn it into a thriller/horror film halfway through to keep the apolitical viewers entertained. And if you're trying to make a thriller, then there should actually be some thrilling scenes in the film, not just random scenes of people screaming and hitting each other.
I really did not vibe with this one and the more I think about it the more it annoys me. I appreciated the intent of Bong Joon-ho in making this film, but I think he either failed terribly or didn't have the grand ambitions everyone led me to believe he had. Judge me all you want, but I think Joker was a much more pointed, nuanced, and thought-provoking portrayal of a class struggle and of what it means to live in poverty than Parasite. I'm also confused as to how everyone criticised Joker for (apparently) promoting the use of violence, while no one is saying it about this film, which clearly wants the viewer to sympathise with Mr. Kim when he stabs Mr. Park. I'm not saying I think this is promoting the use of violence, I think it's merely telling a story and making its point (just like Joker), but I'm highlighting the fact that similar themes are involved here yet no one bat an eyelid.
1143. Yorum: so this was my first time ever attending a film festival and it was amazing!! my friend’s friend (who i had just met) bought me two glasses of wine that i had to drink before going into the theatre (so we missed the first 10 or 15 minutes...) but god damn the rest of it was fantastic and i love film festivals. the end
1144. Yorum: 
1145. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho Ranked
2019 Ranked
It may be a bit of a vacant statement but it’s nonetheless undeniably true: Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite is unlike anything you’ve seen before! It’s not entirely a comedy, it’s not entirely a thriller but it is most certainly a blast to watch. Presenting itself as a clear-eyed but also absolutely bonkers insight in the harmful nature of capitalist society, Parasite manages to both overturn and enhance the stigmas put on the extreme ends of the dead-poor and the filthy rich.
Opening in a cramped basement-apartment, we are introduced to the family of Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho) who, all unemployed, spend their days making boxes for a local pizzeria and live off their neighbor's wi-fi. Yes, they’re in that kind of place. Stuck in the lowest margins of society all they can do is dream and struggle along. When, one night, Kim, the friend of the family’s son Ki-woo, comes along, he offers an odd little job opportunity for him: teach the daughter of an upper-class family English. While Ki-woo hasn’t got any valid credentials, Kim ensures him it doesn’t matter. The family is too naive and nice to really bother, he says. So Ki-woo's sister Ki-jung (Park So-dam) goes to a local computer cafe, photoshops a university diploma like it’s nothing and before they know it, Ki-woo has successfully bullshitted his way into a better life.
And the rest of the family soon follows in a scheme that’s so perfectly planned out, it’s impossible not to laugh at every turn. The daughter becomes an art teacher for the family’s supposedly genius son, the father replaces the driver and the mother knocks the cleaning lady of her decades-long throne. Things are suddenly going incredibly well for them as they carelessly live off the money of the rich like a (hehe) parasite. But it wouldn’t be a Bong Joon-ho film if things wouldn’t take a ghastly unpredictable turn. The third act becomes such a clusterfuck of twists and turns that it puts anything the first half might’ve thought you into a glorious new perspective. It may not feel wholly realistic but it isn’t as farfetched as any of Bong’s more fantastical films either. The family members say it best themselves when they put their constantly changing lives into perspective: “It’s a metaphor.” And while that may be a simple way of summarizing such a beautifully clever film, it’s also, simply, a very true way. Parasite doesn’t have to be a complex monolith of ideas on modern-day society because it doesn’t want to be. It presents its complexities with the easy delectability that Bong has always been known for. His films may not be easy to explain or categorize but they sure are easy to understand. A child could connect the dots that Bong lays out for him but it's the adults that eventually need to learn from it. And what a way to learn with Bong as your teacher.
1146. Yorum: Schon in 'The Host' oder 'Snowpiercer' widmet sich Regisseur Bong Joon-ho den Klassenunterschieden zwischen Arm und Reich. Seine Form der schwarzhumorigen Gesellschaftskritik lässt sich auch in 'Parasite' finden und wird auf ein neues Level gehoben. Hier trifft die arme Familie Kim direkt auf die reiche Familie Park. Eine Konfrontation, die so intelligent und schwarzhumorig ausgespielt wird und trotz der klar definierten Fronten nicht in klassischer Schwarz-Weiß-Malerei mündet.
Der Film generiert von Anfang an eine Sogwirkung, welcher man bis Einsetzen des Abspanns nicht entkommen kann. Völlig homogen wechselt Bong Joon-ho dabei zwischen den Genres hin und her. Während das Genre-Pendel noch zwischen Drama und Komödie hin und her wechselt, wird man als Zuschauer beinahe beiläufig von den Thriller-Momenten in den Abgrund gerissen. Es ist einfach meisterhaft, wie aus diesen verschiedenen Elementen ein unheimlich mitreißendes und funktionierendes Ganzes komponiert wurde.
Trotz der überschaubaren Welt von 'Parasite' werden imposante Bilder geboten, die den Film zu einem wahren Genuss machen. Mit stimmigen Kamerafahrten und wunderbaren Einstellungen hievt sich Hong Kyung-pyo nach den brillanten Arbeiten in 'Snowpiercer', 'The Wailing' und 'Burning' endgültig auf den Kamera-Olymp. Dazu kitzelt Bong Joon-ho meisterhaft die verschiedenen Ebenen der Figuren aus dem Darsteller-Ensemble und so schlägt sich auch der tonale Wechsel des Films spürbar auf das Minenspiel aus. So ergibt sich ein irrwitziges und perfekt inszeniertes Schauspiel auf der Leinwand.
Wie ein Parasit schleicht sich Bong Joon-ho‘s neuester Streich in den Körper des Zuschauers und sorgt von Anfang bis Ende für ein einzigartiges Gefühl der Filmfreude.
Directors Cut:
www.filmtoast.de/parasite/
1147. Yorum: OH MY GODDDDD. this is something that needs to be seen to be believed. batshit crazy and absolutely brilliant.
1148. Yorum: easily the best film of my generation
1149. Yorum: I've known about this film since it first came out. At that time, I wasn't into thrillers and decided to watch it later. Also, it was too mainstream for my taste. I usually avoid mainstream films because they are often made to please the masses, and everybody knows about them. I have always preferred watching underrated films with new concepts that are not easy to grasp. Finally, today I decided to watch this one because I was in the mood for a good Korean film.
- You know what kind of plan never fails? 
- No plan at all. 
This quote hit me hard like a truck. 
After seeing the ratings, I already knew it was going to be great. It delivers on its promise with an excellent screenplay and execution. Nobody could have imagined such a story in their wildest dreams. Hats off to Bong Joon-ho. The best part about this film is the storyline and the underlying meaning behind it. It draws a clear line between the rich and the poor by bringing these two worlds together in one place, with the juxtaposition highlighting the subtle differences between them.
This film left me pondering what I had just witnessed. The final act, where Kang-ho Song's character stabs Lee Sun-kyun's character, was the pivotal moment that set off the repercussions of his actions. The poignant ending underscores the harsh reality that bridging the vast divide between the rich and the poor is extremely unlikely, making the pursuit of a luxurious life seem nearly impossible.
1150. Yorum: Had a blast with this. Love it when a film can make you laugh, hold you in suspense and genuinely shock you the way Parasite can. It’s incredibly rich with subtext and themes. One of those films you think about long after it has finished. 
The construction and execution are so exquisite. It feels effortless though undoubtedly there’s a great deal of finely judged thought, care and work going into it. I was totally engrossed from start to finish
1151. Yorum: This movie clings to me.

I tend to do a lot of my movie watching during the late hours of the night. I’m not too sure why it just seems like an ideal time to do so. It’s quiet and peaceful, nothing can distract me from a film that way. I watched parasite at around 2AM in the morning and I am so glad that I did. The experience I had was full immersion and concentration on this rollercoaster ride of a movie. Time passed so quickly as I eagerly spectated this family’s rise and eventual fall. 
Ever since the credits rolled late that night I have not been able to stop thinking about and pondering on parasite. It’s a film like no other I’ve seen before. It reaches its story beats in a very seemingly coincidental way. At first I expected this to be a story of fortunate and unfortunate events that lead to the success, or failure of this family. But as I watched I realized this was a family plotting and scheming their way into a life they desire. This movie has the ability to give you the thrill of seeing a plan all come together in a heist movie, while also demonstrating deep and meaningful themes, and creating an intense and unpredictable storyline. The themes of Parasite are very clear but in no way or they simple or forgettable. Parasites themes are meaningful and in my opinion very important in today’s world. We are shown such contrasting points of view from two different social and economic classes. It is brilliant and thought provoking.
Parasite is so metaphorical.
Enough about that, let’s talk about the amazing acting all throughout parasite. There was not a single character in parasite that I didn’t love to see on screen. They all each had their specific quirks or specific way of moving or talking in a way that made each one entertaining to watch. I want to talk mostly about Kang-Ho Song. When I first saw his character on screen I was not expecting much. I was expecting the kids to be the most interesting to watch and the most proactive in the story, but as I watched I quickly came to look forward to seeing him on screen. He was a perfect match for the tonal shifts. He was intense when the scene called for it and in the calmer moments he portrayed a tone and look that fit the scene but also let you feel the constant rising tension and the importance of each word he uttered. Half of this could most likely be attributed to fantastic writing, but even so his performance was far beyond outstanding.  
The last thing I need to talk about is the cinematography. The cinematography in this film gives such a contrast in itself that fits the story and themes so well. Every shot seems like it really means something, like it was shot a certain way for a reason. It is far far from voiceless, it is in your face while at the same time not being distracting. It only adds to the story and feels as if it really is a storytelling method. I also find this film to be very geometrical, Parasite is a beautiful landscape made up of perfectly arranged shapes. This film is stunning and even the look of it evokes emotion.
Parasite made me feel something I haven’t felt in a long time. It made me feel that what I watched was both very meaningful in regards to its themes and premise, and also that it was very important in the world of filmmaking. It’s dark, intense, fascinating, mystical, insane, beautiful, poetic, and moving. I feel that this films achievements will serve as a bridge to bring more exposure to foreign films in the USA.  I was also very pleased with its ending. Grade: A+
1152. Yorum: RESPEEEECT
1153. Yorum: Grade: 100%
2019 Ranked - HERE
Top 100 Movies - HERE
Parasite is one of the greatest films of last decade, and my re-watch has solidified that fact for me. I’ve already reviewed this last year and most of my thoughts remain the same but I will say that I had a couple small nitpicks that I’ve thought about since and now after another viewing have come to the decision that this film is flawless in my books, a true masterpiece. The film is shot exceptionally well, something I noticed even more this time around, it also has some brilliant moments of foreshadowing that I only realized after the fact. The acting is fantastic, the emotions these characters are able to convey, especially Song Kang-ho, who has a couple truly heartbreaking moments. This is a masterfully crafted film, and it’s one I have recommended to everyone I know, even with the subtitles, this film is truly one that everyone can get something out of. While I rank 1917 slightly higher, I’m oddly cheering more for this to upset at tomorrow night’s Oscars, but in the end both deserve praise, regardless of any award. I love Parasite, it is a movie that personally allowed me to see the wonderful filmmaking I could be subject to if I just read subtitles, and for that it’s all the more important to me.
1154. Yorum: 2019 ranked
movies seen at the cinema
chain reaction challenge
listen y'all i have spent the last couple of months avoiding literally anything about this movie because i wanted to go in as blind as possible and let me just say, BEST decision ever made wow this was just incredible.
bong joon-ho is a mad genius i swear like this was just spectacular
1155. Yorum: PARASITE (Bong Joon-ho, South Korea, 2019) 10 (was 9) R
It’s so metaphorical ...
Profits enormously from Bong’s apparent immunity from having to prove how Marxist or Woke he is. This is a movie about class conflict, no doubt, but there is no sentimentalizing of the poor (not that there actually was in Marx/Engels; but that’s a different topic). Indeed, the entire second half of the movie depends on the opposite inclination and even in the first half, the poor family is acting dishonestly, albeit in a more “fun” and relatively harmless vein and then unworthily of the home they occupy (Bong must’ve studied up on Buñuel). I mean, we ARE agreed that this family is pretty dislikable, no? When The Revolution comes, it’s not pretty and note where most of the blood is spilled.
But apart from the thematics, PARASITE is also a masterpiece of sheer narrative construction and directorial execution, with tiny gestures or set-ups that pay off reels later (cutting off the CCTV, peaches, art therapy). The camera is always in the right place, framing secondary characters without seeming fussy, and the sets and compositions expressive (the dungeon under the luxe home, and the lighting of the back yard). The coda is a fantasy, a filmed gesture — note where the camera is when the family is reunited — that suggests a collapse into a self-forgetting insanity to avert looking into the void, see also the ends of MOTHER and MEMORIES OF MURDER (coincidentally, his three best films).
1156. Yorum: A Hitchcockian wonderland of devilish thrills, coiling suspense, mischievous humor, sharp story turns, a vibrant pack of distinctively hued characters, basically only two main settings whose designs and features are dazzlingly utilized, uncommonly casual family bonds (when deception is a primary story device, you don't usually see people be so endearingly, tightly knit, making that element yet another splendid dodge of convention here), nuanced morality (no one here is altogether good or bad, despite the complex webbing of alternating tugs at our sympathy and scorn for just about every single person), and a powerfully sobering climax that's punctuated by a final *thing* (vague to avoid spoilers) which reverberates against the film's heavy commentary on social class disparity and bittersweet have-nots human struggle as memorably as J-Lo's great closing line in "Hustlers" did.
Far more accessible, fluid, open, and directly moving than the usual big winners at Cannes (although to be fair there are some lately I haven't seen that I'm only guessing are difficult). I was expecting more of a challenge, and relieved not to have one, just a straight terrifically conceived and crowd-pleasingly playful heist film of a sort, with a stinging chaser.
1157. Yorum: 
1158. Yorum: Parasite kam mit so euphorischen Bewertungen und einem so riesigen Hype in die Kinos, dass die Neugier und die Erwartungen aus dem Nichts riesig waren. Ich war so gespannt, dass ich mir vorher jeden Film von Bong Joon-Ho, den ich in die Finger bekommen konnte, angeschaut habe. Schon vor Parasite stand für mich fest: der Mann kann was. Gestern Abend konnte ich also mit ein bisschen Reisezeit Parasite sehen und ja, endlich mal ein Film bei dem ich die positive Resonanz und den Hype komplett nachvollziehen kann.
Ich wusste vorher quasi nichts über den Inhalt und so kann man diesen Film vermutlich am besten genießen. Denn Parasite ist ein absurder Genremix und ich kann mich nicht erinnern wann ich das letzte Mal im Kino gelacht, mitgefiebert und nachgedacht habe. Die Geschichte ist unvorhersehbar und auch unkonventionell, aber dennoch total zugänglich, sodass man diesen Film im Prinzip jedem empfehlen kann. Die Atmosphäre ist von Anfang an einzigartig und der gesamte Film ist purer Genuss.
Das Parasite so großartig ist, wie er ist, hat für mich hauptsächlich 3 Gründe.
Zuallererst erst das Drehbuch von Bong Joon-Ho. Wie bei allen anderen Filmen hat er dies erneut selber geschrieben und es trotzt nur so vor Genialität. Die Dialoge sind alle on Point und die absurden Momenten zünden allesamt. Der Wechsel zwischen den einzelnen Genres wird fast unbemerkt vollzogen. Die größte Besonderheit aus meiner Sicht ist aber, ähnlich wie bei Okja, dass man den Film einfach schauen kann und einen super Abend hat oder man befasst sich mit der Kritik die geäußert wird. Aber keins von beiden beeinflusst sich, sodass man zB von der Kritik genervt ist oder die Kritik nicht ernst nehmen kann, weil der Film über weite Strecken doch eher leichtfüßig daher kommt. Diesen schmalen Grat bewältigt BJH mit Bravour.
Dazu kommt dann noch die Inszenierung und die Kameraarbeit von Hong Kyung-pyo. Letztere erschafft erneut wunderschöne Bilder und Kamerafahrten, die perfekt passen. Wenn beispielsweise Personen ein, für sie und uns unbekanntes Gebiet betreten, zB das Haus, folgt die Kamera dem Geschehen, sodass sich für uns nach und nach dasselbe offenbart wie für die Figuren. Auch langweilig klingende Momente, wie Personen, die sich verstecken oder nicht entdeckt werden wollen, profitieren von dieser Kombination. Jeder Winkel, jeder Schnitt und jeder Moment funktioniert genau so und nicht anders. Wir sehen was wir sehen sollen und wir erleben mit den Figuren die Situationen, sodass eine unglaubliche Spannung entsteht. In dieser Hinsicht ist Parasite ein Paradebeispiel dafür, was es ausmacht, wenn der Regisseur genau weiß was er will, weil er in vielen Prozessen integriert ist und ein fähiges Team hat, dass das umsetzen kann.
Zu guter Letzt muss man noch den Cast erwähnen. Die Figuren sind großartig geschrieben, aber genauso perfekt dargestellt. Von allen Figuren bekommen nahezu beiläufig ihre Beweggründe und Charaktereigenschaften vorgestellt, sodass wir nach hinten raus keinerlei Fragen haben, wieso diese Figuren tun was sie tun. Beeindruckend ist dabei zusätzlich, dass keine Schwarz-weiß-Charakterisierung stattfindet, was bei dieser Thematik schnell passieren kann. Jede Figur/Gruppe hat sympathische und unsympathische Eigenschaften. Als Zuschauer versteht man beide Seiten kann (und soll vermutlich) sich aber gar nicht für eine entscheiden. Das alles ist hauptsächlich den tollen Darsteller und Darstellerinnen zu verdanken.
Parasite ist ein perfekter Film. Bong Joon-Ho hat sich nochmal gesteigert und gezeigt, dass er aktuell einer der besten Regisseure ist.
1159. Yorum: Despite being my favorite of Bong Joon-ho's work by a large margin, it doesn't look like I'm going to be in the camp hailing this as one of the best films of the year. For a long time I was really loving it; the first act in particular reminded me of the intricate narrative and character dynamics of The Handmaiden, which is similarly con artist-adjacent, but there's no denying how completely unsatisfying I find the final 20 minutes. Probably deserves a spoiler review to go into detail about my specific issues with the climax/resolution (though I have other reservations as well) and I'm determined to give it a second watch by the end of the year anyway.
1160. Yorum: ohh fancy pants rich mcgee over here FUCK YOU ! - the kim family
1161. Yorum: I gasped, I laughed, I choked on peach fluff
1162. Yorum: I have put off this movie for SO LONG. Due to not being in the right mindset to read subtitles throughout, or just wanting to watch something in a different genre. One thing I can say is that I regret not watching this as soon as I first found out about it. 
There’s this odd feeling I get when I watch a movie that I’d classify as a masterpiece. Like my chest has caved in a bit, and my body has warmed up. I don’t get it often, but when I do I know I just had a great experience. I didn’t want it to be over, but it ran so perfectly and smoothly that I couldn’t take my eyes off of the screen.
I cannot wait to rewatch this.
Thank you Bong Joon-ho & the entire cast behind this movie.
10/10
1163. Yorum: South Korean season on Film 4 this month!
1164. Yorum: Watched the black and white edition. I remember telling a friend of mine that if a movie has colours it has to justify why the use of colour instead of the black and white. This is not true, I probably wanted to make a point about the importance of colour or the importance of its absence. "Parasite" is a filme where the use of colour gives an extra layer to the film. Moods, plot points and the dramatic realism of the picture are all affected without it.
The black and white does give it a nice look and there are some scenes where it is simply beautiful. However, I think "Parasite" benefits on its colours, and the complexity of the world is further incread with the whole range of light and colour of it.
1165. Yorum: Waiting for everyone to attack me for not rating this 5 stars. The first half was good but the second half kinda sucked.
1166. Yorum: This is so metaphorical. 🤗
1167. Yorum: I'm Really late to the party on this one, I know, but honestly that's just the kind of man I was. Call me a contrarian, hipster, assaholic bitch, what have you but I like to wait on watching things when they have such buzz. I don't know why I'm like this but my decidely snobbish skepticism has shielded me from being disappointed by pretty much every popular TV show of the last 10 years, unlike all of you sorry GoT and Walking Dead fans.

I don't even watch many live action shows, I'm just being a cunt. ;)

I'm keeping this brief because everyone knows what this movie is and how fantastic it is. I don't even really know what to say, everyone's already used up all the good talking points, goddammit!

This movie is a great depicition of not only wealth inequality and the stark contrasts between classes but also of how opportunism and greed can corrupt people. Watching this family subtley manipulate and betray the trust of people is disgusting. They reward cold and callous manipulation among themselves but deny people in a similar situation to theirs even the slightest consideration. It's easy to get caught up in these characters and I'm sure many of us can identify with their struggle. However it cannot be over-looked that they are not good people.

None of the characters in this movie are good. They are well-written, well-performed bad people. Despite how you feel about rich "people" it's important to note that the family who is preyed upon (or rather, leeched off of) didn't really do anything wrong. Sure the father definitely wasn't a nice person but the rest were just normal rich "people". And, you know what? FUCK EM! I was still cheering for the Kim family despite knowing what they were doing is wrong. I wish I could do it myself. In fact, ima find myself a rich family n see if they're really so naive, I'll let you guys know if they need a housekeeper. ;)

This could prove to be a personal favorite on future reviewings but for now, it's a 9/10. :) 9/10
Edit: Bong Joon Ho hits the bong soon, bro! (I thought of that and couldn't help but write it here)
1168. Yorum: UHMM EXCUSE ME WHILE I PICK MY JAW UP OFF THE FLOOR?? MY EYES HAVE BEEN BLESSED I AM A WHOLE NEW PERSON
i can't think of anything that hasn't already been said but i truly am the biggest idiot for not seeing this sooner. i guess my expectations were very high after the oscars and i didn't even know anything about the plot and i didn't want to end up disappointed, tho i know now there's no place for disappointment here.
i'm not good with words so i'm just gonna leave it like this but if you were waiting for a sign to watch parasite, do it now. or rewatch it because why not
1169. Yorum: Fourth time watching it and I'm still not prepared to do a proper review.
1170. Yorum: 
1171. Yorum: I retract my rating, now that it's won best picture I hate it
1172. Yorum: The parts with the rain briefly reminded me how, at least with the people I knew growing up, 'loving the winter' wasn't so much a cutesy goth thing as a 'my house has heating/insulation' thing. Parasite is elemental, choosing rain as a minor and inevitable occurrence that threatens one group and just changes the scenery for another. Of course the lived administration of these things doesn't matter and Bong understands this — the rain isn't just the rain and using public transport isn't just using public transport. Following the flood from the top of the hill down also traces the Parks' fundamental disgust of the Kims from their guts to their pores.
Up until that scene I had reservations because it felt too slick to be Bong-like, but thinking it would finish with the flood I also had it picked as perfect. The idea of perfect comes with an expiry date though, and the jankier Parasite gets the more peculiarly specific to itself it becomes as a film. Which means it could well be an enduring thing.
1173. Yorum: \_(🤪)_/ 🔪
1174. Yorum: 2019 Ranked: boxd.it/2fcdA
Finally caught this in theaters and WOW did it deliver. The sound, cinematography, performances, story, and everything else played so perfectly. Even though I knew what was coming I still was on edge for the entire 2nd half of the movie. I also heard McKenna say “oh shit” at least 5 times throughout. Holy fuck I want to watch this again now.
1175. Yorum: A bit heavy handed and very of it’s time but a masterpiece nonetheless. Cried and laughed multiple times each (which isn’t saying much coming from me but still). Bong joon ho and song kang ho never disappoint. I’m wayyyyyy behind on 2019 movies but I don’t see anything beating this
Also everyone keeps talking about the joker stairs and the call me by your name peach but what about THESE cultural symbols 😤😤
1176. Yorum: Manages to be three or four different films all at once, each one as wildly entertaining as the last. With an absolutely bonkers incident at its climax that comes seemingly out of nowhere, even though, in retrospect, all the seeds had been planted throughout the movie. Instant classic.
1177. Yorum: a nifty (and often delightfully stressful) look at the double bind of affective/domestic labor, performing the role of gratefully subservient class status while also operating the facade of earned wealth that keeps that status fixed. There’s something here about income brackets allowing an idle ruling class to be “nice” while the violence of capitalism is outsourced to failing infrastructure or warring factions below, either those increasingly proletarianized or others ascending to an internal labor aristocracy.
plays like the social problems of shoplifters filtered through the genre trappings of Us and avoids the latter’s pitfall of overexplaining itself even if some aspects feel more “one thing after another” than directly thematically relevant except on a technicality. Still, if it feels more resolved narratively than “metaphorical”ly it, thanks to bong’s suggestive details, works.
1178. Yorum: Me, a millennial: if this is the only way to have a steady job and my own house, so be it...
1179. Yorum: I'm telling you. 2019 is going to be hailed as one of the most memorable years for movies because of movies like Parasite. We need more movies like this.
Loved the social commentary. Loved the well-developed characters and performances. Loved the way this movie looks and the way music is utilized. Damn, I just love this movie.
1180. Yorum: Original Title: Gisaengchung
Year of Release: 2019
Genres: Dark Comedy; Drama; Thriller
Director: Bong Joon-ho
Writers: Bong Joon-ho, Han Jin-won, Kim Dae-hwan
Main Cast: Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik, Park So-dam, Lee Jung-eun, Chang Hyae-jin, Jung Zi-so, Jung Hyeon-jun
There comes a time in a director’s life where, after having made some movies, they finally tackle a project that they were born to make. Parasite is Bong Joon-ho’s masterpiece, a word that I do not use lightly. After having been a major voice in the South Korean New Wave of cinema, with genre films ranging from the crime thriller to the creature feature, he delivers the equivalent of what The Handmaiden was for Park Chan-wook’s career.
In Parasite we follow an unemployed family of four (husband, wife, son, and daughter) that, through a variety of ingenious cons, starts to work for a wealthy Korean family that lives in an artistic house. Right from the get-go, this is easily the most comedic of the films of Bong: from the energy of the dialogue to the vibrancy of the editing, the first half is an overwhelming succession of clever scene after clever scene, leading to incredibly satisfying moments that are executed so flawlessly that it was hard not to clap during the screening. But the initial humor not only works in itself, but it is also used to show and critique the social divide between the wealthy and the poor, and how a seemingly armless thing like heavy rain can benefit one and ruin the other.
This really does feel like the apex of everything we have grown to love from Bong: the strong social statements and allegorical narratives, mixing dark humor with disturbing moments, focusing on dysfunctional families that come together to support each other… This really has it all. The energy present on screen is nothing short of impressive, giving the audience a rollercoaster ride of emotions and keeping the momentum going from the first to the last shot, crafting an experience that flies by in the blink of an eye. Everything is borderline perfect, from the balance of all the different tones to the stunning cinematography that features some really nifty composition that can be both humorous and thrilling.
The cast is utterly terrific, starting from everyone’s favorite Korean actor Song Kang-ho: over the years he has truly shown varying ranges of acting, from goofy physical comedy in The Good, The Bad, The Weird and The Foul King to more dramatic and emotional performances in Thirst and Army of Shadows, and here he delivers an outstanding blend of realistic comedic behaviour with seriousness and gravitas. The rest of the cast as well is excellent, with everyone being on the same page as the director as to what tone to have in each scene, and the comedic timing was absolutely on point from everyone.
Overall, Parasite was a worthy winner of the Palm D’or at the 72nd Cannes Film Festival: in a competition full of great movies, this one was easily the most entertaining of them all, while also delivering a thoughtful outlook on today’s crowded society and uneven wealth distribution. It makes for a great companion piece to Jordan Peele’s Us.
Story: 9
Directing: 10
Cinematography: 9
Acting: 9.5
Sound: 9
Visual Effects: 9
ENJOYMENT: 10
BORINGNESS: 0
PARENTAL GUIDANCE
Violence & Gore: 8
Sex & Nudity: 6
Drugs & Profanity: 2
Intensity & Horror: 6
Follow me on YouTube, where I review movies and video games
1181. Yorum: FLAWLESS | ATTENTION-CONSUMING
1st watch | TOP 100
“You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all.”💯 
favourite character: N/A
favourite performance: Song Kang-ho
favourite scene: “Dwellers in the basement”
favourite aspect: Plot
Perfection. Nothing short of outstanding. Any idea I had of this movie was completely subversive. A marvel in cinema that never fails to catch my attention, is unpredictability. Only the best films have an adequate amount of it, and this prevails over any other film, Period. meticulously crafted, this film is more of a journey than any other. Completely enticed in the story, I felt like I was working in that house, I could lose my job next. This has a sense of worry that I didn’t even know films could convey.  After “joining” Letterboxd, I’d rush to write reviews after everything, this is the one film that I just sat there; contemplating what I had just seen. Or better, what I had just experienced. The opening scenes in the semi-basement is “so metaphorical” as the family taking Wi-Fi indicates that they are parasites. Given all the praise, I thought it might have been “overhyped” and couldn’t be more wrong. Despite the previous mention of “praised” it deserves to be even more hyped. 100% top 5 of the decade and possibly of all-time. This film really does showcase the horrible things greed and money can do it to people. Consumed by it, these people are truly disgusting. Not only does this take turns within the story but also within the viewers moral compass. It takes a family plagued with moderate poverty who take advantage of everything around them. They are poor and needy but they find an unjust way to money. It conflicted me more than any other film alike. But thats the thing, there aren’t any films like it.
Bong-joon-ho completely deserved the academy award. 2019 may have been the best year film, according to many, and this is the peak of that year. While I do plan on rewatching this, this is another film I don’t need to watch it again to know it’s a favourite. It doesn’t fit a genre, it creates a genre that I can’t put my finger on. The action aspects of this film was amazing. The sound design really did do justice to the amazing script. It screams parasite in a way that has never been seen in cinema for any other film. The writing was absolutely amazing. It really does encapsulate what real people sound like. This gives a human touch to people who can be seen as monsters, animals and scumbags. Definitely watch it subbed (haven’t tried dubbed, but let’s be real). The direction is more than masterful. The contrast in the houses showcase the director’s capabilities. The setting is an me of the best ever. The first act was so entertaining (so is the whole movie). Completely grabs your attention with the South Korean hierarchy. The middle act may possibly be the best ever. 3rd, likewise. That ending was so shocking. The scenes with big events didn’t feel sudden or rushed even if they were due to that AMAZING CINEMATOGRAPHY. I wasn’t bored at any given moment. The pacing was perfection, couldn’t ask for better. Flawless, this is why I watch films.
“You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. Got it?”
perfections
A+
100/100
1182. Yorum: gets better with each viewing
The Kims, consisting of parents Chung-sook and Ki-taek, along with their young adult children Ki-woo and Ki-jung, reside in a cramped basement apartment in a bustling lower-working-class area of Seoul. Ki-woo aspires to escape poverty through university but lacks the opportunity. His friend Min suggests him for a tutoring job with the wealthy Park family. In their modernistic home designed by renowned architect Namgoong, the Parks emphasize status. Ki-woo, despite lacking a university degree, deceives Mrs. Park to secure the tutoring position. Discovering an opportunity for Ki-jung to pose as an art therapist and teacher, the Kims devise a plan to replace the Parks' existing staff. Moon-gwang, the housekeeper, proves challenging to oust as she is intimately familiar with the residence. As the Kims strive to integrate into the Park family, the question arises: how far can they take this elaborate swindle to become their own version of the parks?
Since I didn't use letterboxd the first few times I watched it, I couldn't write a review of this masterpiece yet.
That's why I have to make up for it with this rewatch.
Starting with the acting, all the actors give a more than convincing performance.
Especially Song Kang-ho is great, who I always enjoy watching. Also Lee Jung-eun (housekeeper Moon-Gwang), should not go unmentioned.
But among the actors, no one really stands out. Which is meant in a positive sense, as they are all first-class in their work and masterfully cast.
The story/screenplay, for which Bong Joon-ho, himself, and Han Jin-won are responsible, is incredibly creative, clever and excitingly written.
The sets are great and functional. The houses of the parks and Kims were even created and built especially for the movie.
Bong reveals that the choice of the home for the Kims mirrors the psyche of their family, offering a unique blend of hope and fear. He describes it as a representation of being "half overground," where there's still access to sunlight, yet the fear lingers of falling even lower. This resonates with the protagonists' emotions, reflecting their complex reality.
On the other hand, Lee, the set designer, adopts an architectural mindset to craft the Parks' home. The house, originally designed by the fictional starchitect Namgoong, was envisioned as the previous owner's creation. Lee focuses on creating a space so realistic that the audience can seamlessly accept the characters' inhabitance. The result is a simple, elegant, and modern dwelling with ample use of wood, glass, and clean lines.
For the Parks' living room, Namgoong's design emphasizes appreciation of the garden, featuring a massive glass wall overlooking the yard. The minimalist furnishings, including a unique multi-level coffee table and a stylish couch, contribute to the authenticity. The art on the walls, featuring works by Seung-mo Park, becomes a status symbol, adding layers to the visual narrative.
Lee Ha-Jun, the actual set designer, reinforces the importance of crafting a house that feels real for the audience. He combines cinematic elements with architectural authenticity to bring the characters' living spaces to life, ensuring a seamless connection between the on-screen environment and the viewers' perception.
The camera and the color grading also help to show the contrast between rich and poor, between parasite and host.
With the Kim family, the camera moves very little and when it does, it moves jerkily.
With the Park's, on the other hand, cameraman Hong Kyung-pyo makes long, wide tracking shots
The film’s color grading/palette is used to create a contrast between the wealthy and poor family.

The poor family’s home is
portrayed with cool and muted colors such as blue, green, black tones or mint.
These colors create a sense of poverty
and desperation.
They also reflect the Kims' struggle to make ends meet.
In contrast the wealthy family’s home is depicted with warm and vibrant colors such as gold, yellow, brown or orange.
These colors create a sense of luxury and opulence and reflective the Park's status and wealth.
The sound design is always perfectly adapted to scenes and situations.
A lot of classical music is also used during the showdown in the wealthy Park's house, and classical music tends to stand for wealth.
The last act or showdown also works perfectly for me although I've often read that it ruined the movie for some people. I had a bit of a Tarantino feeling.
I can only recommend this movie to everyone, even to those who are actually reluctant to watch Korean cinema.
Rating: "masterfully deep" 5 out of 5 stars
1183. Yorum: 
1184. Yorum: best post vaxx film
1185. Yorum: very unrealistic, if they wanted to be rich they should've worked hard for it
1186. Yorum: Ever since I heard Parasite was coming out from the Criterion, I kept waiting on a release date. But since it came out on 4K 2 days ago, I knew I had to buy it at Best Buy, including The Invisible Man & War of the Worlds. The price for all 3 of them were $70, so was it worth it? Yes it was! So personally, I would consider it as a wedding gift to me from me! But most importantly, I can’t get enough of Parasite! I showed it to my best friend and his wife last weekend, and they thought it was fucking twisted, but it was one of the best films of 2019, and they thought it definitely deserved to win the Best Picture Oscar! I just wish I can show it to my fiancé, but she’s not interested in seeing great films in subtitles.
1187. Yorum: Holy. Fucking. Shit.
Seeing this in IMAX was a true blessing, one I feel lucky to have received, and was the best possible way to watch the movie.
The range of emotions I felt watching this movie again for the first time since August, before it’s Oscar buzz and then win, picking up on stuff I didn’t catch the first time, thinking more about things I did but didn’t give enough thought towards, allowing myself to look closer at certain elements, the true perfection of the performances and symbolism, and allowing myself to go harder on the ride, which made the moments I was already shocked by even more fucked this time. 
Being able to look at every nook and cranny after already having everything explained to me for months after watching this movie from Twitter gave me a completely new perspective to a film I already had loved, but felt was a bit overhyped. Even though I now knew everything that was gonna happen, I felt so much more this time now that I knew what to expect, and the complex and rich nature of all the character’s motivations was able to seep into my mind like water dripping from a faucet. Knowing everything happening then being able to see it with a different perspective made me realize that I didn’t give it the proper viewing, and this time when that ending hit, I felt so much more affected.
Everything about this movie is perfect. Even with SLIGHT continuity issues, but those are the smallest nitpicks, everything else is so amazing. This is why I love cinema. This is why I love discussing it. This is why I have such a passion for it.
I stayed through the credits to listen to the music and I felt like I was about to let tears loose. A film like this being able to win Best Picture is something we can only dream of happening, but it happened. Dear god it happened. God bless Bong Joon-Ho. Can’t wait to see more of his work.
Also, *clears throat*, in the wise words of Robert De Niro, “FUCK TRUMP!”
1188. Yorum: best picture best picture best picture
1189. Yorum: I'm not the craziest about stories that are predominantly predicated on metaphors and allegory; the search for relating deeper meaning almost always tends to come at the expense of narrative coherence and emotional depth, leaving the audience with little to gain from the work beyond the direct ideological intentions of the creator. Parasite, despite being a microcosmic study of the dangers of class inequality on a broad societal level, shocked me by managing to work equally well as both an allegory and as an engaging thriller! Bong Joon Ho's efforts are genuinely masterful here on every level, as he playfully sets up the puzzle pieces in the first act, before the narrative shifts in a way that was at both wildly unpredictable and completely necessary. This shift arrives just as the film threatened to stagnate within the bounds of it's initial premise, and instead managed to build upon itself in a manner that managed to be equal parts gripping and insightful. The result leaned into the mix of overt social commentary and dark comedy that I've come to love from him, the insanely tight script managing to find an emotional hook for everything that occurs in spite of the fact that every element manages to serve a dual role in the overarching metaphor (and oftentimes, has a literal or thematic double within the bounds of the narrative as well). The look and feel that he creates for this film does a lot of work in reinforcing the narrative: the graceful and purposeful camerawork, in combination with the richly detailed production design are vital in reinforcing both the pathos and logos of a story whose tightrope walk could have so easily fallen into disaster.
With all this being said, I'll probably need to revisit this film in order to truly feel the full force of it's story. Although I understand it on a narrative level, the way that it layers it's plot and social commentary has a level of overtness that doesn't quite mesh as I thought it would with the subversiveness of it's general approach. This is a feeling that is par for the course in my experience with Bong Joon Ho's filmography, but which I feel is especially pronounced in Parasite due to the genuine necessity of it's message. With this being said, the exceedingly warm critical and commercial reception that Parasite has received leaves me hopeful not just for the viability of arthouse cinema, but for the fact that it is helping to reinforce the dangers of the late-stage capitalist world that we are so rapidly falling in line with. The more films that genuinely seek to explore our social conditions in an intelligent manner, the better!
1190. Yorum: Was going to make a bad People Under the Stairs joke only to realize they really do have practically the same general premise?
1191. Yorum: I was ready to run with Midsommar being my fav of the year but Ari Aster has been found dead in a ditch because FUCK.
Dare I say film of the year? It's bound to be one of the best when the year wraps up, if not THE best, and is sure to become an all timer. I have no hesitation calling this a modern masterpiece.
1192. Yorum: عائلة عاطلة عن العمل، مُتطفّلة، أصابها الفقر حتى أصبحت تقتات على المأكل والمشرب، يبحثون عن شبكة الانترنت كبحثهم عن منجمٍ للذهب، أتتهم فُرصة من السماء فانقضّوا عليها عضًا بالنواجذ، ولكن... حدث ما لا يُحمد عقباه، وضعوا قدمًا للأمام دون أن يلتفتوا خلفهم 🐛.
تختلف المواهب بين الناس، منهم من يكتشفها مُبكرًا ومنهم من يقضي نحبه دون أن يعلمها.
عائلة تستميت بأقل الفُرص، تضع حياتها على المحك، تتطفل من أجل أن تعيش،من دون خطة لن يحيد شيء عن مساره، فهل حريّ بنا أن نخطط أم نمشي كما تُمهد لنا الحياة طريقها؟
الفيلم الحائز على السعفة الذهبية في مهرجان كان السينمائي، فلم جميل ومُمتع بقصّة قليل ما نُشاهدها بهذه الروعة والإثارة.
يحوي الفِلم على لقطات جميلة، إشراق الصباح والأثاث الجميل، صنع أجواء جميلة، لقطة البيتزا وإيحاءها فيها من العبقرية الشيء الكثير، راقت لي كثيرًا.
الشخصيّات كانت كما يجب، رتم الفلم في تصاعد حتى يصل للنهاية، الكوميديا قليلة إلّا أنها من النوع المُتزن لا المُخِل.
قد لا تُصدّق بعض تفاصيل الفِلم، أو تكون بعيدة قليلة عن الواقع، إلّا أنها قد تحصل، توقعت مفاجأة أكبر من التي حدثت، توقعت لقطة عبقرية تُفاجئني لتجعلني أعيد شريط الفِلم سريعًا في مُخيلتي، هذا لا يعني بأن النهاية كلنت سيّئة، لا زالت جميلة وغير متوقعة، استمتعت بالفِلم وبأحداثه.
أوصيكم بمشاهدته والاستمتاع بفكرته المُختلفة والغير دارجة كثيرًا، قصّة ممتعة، اسم الفِلم ومُلصقة الإعلاني مُلفتان كقصّته.
1193. Yorum: I dont even care at this point. You think sometimes the director made their peak and there's no going back and then they do this.

I rewatched this shit because why the fuck not and I dont even know how the fuck am I ever gonna pick my favourite Bong Joon-Ho film. Why? Because HOW THE FUCK AM I SUPPOSED TO CHOOSE BETWEEN THIS AND MEMORIES OF MURDER? This was also my first Korean movie and I now realise that I had made such a right choice. This movie literally deserved all the awards it received. The acting, the story, the parallels, the twist, the ending, the cinematography, everything is top notch. This is one of the greatest films of all time hands fucking down. Serving as a thriller and a film depicting the societal class difference... just wow man. Just wow.
A fucking must watch. DEFINITELY WORTH IT.
1194. Yorum: this is literally that thing where a person lives somewhere in your house without you ever knowing omgg
1195. Yorum: It infuriates me that there is an option to give this movie less than five stars. I don’t understand how someone could leave this movie and say it’s not a masterpiece. I am in love with Parasite. Every second of this movie engrossed me. I never wanted it to end. The definition of a perfect movie.
Parasite WELCOME to the 5 Star Club.
5 Star Club
1196. Yorum: 
1197. Yorum: went in with high expectations. CAN CONFIRM THIS SHIT WAS SO GOOD
1198. Yorum: O FILME EM SI TEM UM CONCEITO E UMA PROPOSTA, DE SER UMA POSTURA BEM "MINUCIOSO" A SOCIEDADE ATUAL, MAS TEMOS QUE REPASSAR QUE NEM TUDO NO FILME É UMA CRÍTICA BEM DADA AO CONCEITO QUE ELES QUERIAM PASSAR, DE COMO OS PERSONAGENS PRINCIPAIS QUERIAM COISAS SEM O MÉRITO PRÓPRIO.
ELES TINHAM O SEU ESFORÇO PESSOAL, MAS EM MOMENTO ALGUM USARAM COM INTELIGÊNCIA.. E VAMOS CONCORDAR??? EU NÃO JULGO EM PARTES O ESFORÇO QUE A FAMÍLIA TEVE EM MENTIR ATÉ A IDENTIDADE PARA CONSEGUIR TIRAR APROVEITO DA FAMÍLIA.
PORÉM FOI EXAGERADAMENTE ESTERIÓTIPADA O QUANTO O >>POBRE<< É OFENDIDAMENTE VISTO COMO "VILÃO" NESSA BOLHA SOCIAL, AONDE TUDO GIRA EM TORNO NO MAL CARATISMO EXAGERADO.
MAS NÃO DEIXA DE SER BOA, TEVE MUITAS CENAS UNICAMENTE SATISFATÓRIAS DE VER, CONCEITOS QUE NÃO FORAM NADA GENÉRICOS.
COMO A CASA INUNDADA PELA CHUVA E A KI-JUNG ENCIMA DA PRIVADA VAZANDO DE FEZES.
NÃO ACHO DIGNO AFIRMAR QUE É RUIM, MAS A CRÍTICA SOCIAL FEITA, NÃO FOI NADA SATISFATÓRIO, MESMO SENDO EXCLUSIVAMENTE BOM.
1199. Yorum: When a smart South Korea poor family decides to escalate the social ladder and take advantage of a rich family offering it suited services to their familiar problems firstly they have to displace the former employees. They did not realize nor the family living in the house that in the underground of it there was an atomic bunker. I was built to face any attack from North Korea. The brokers didn't say that to their clients to maintain the market price. Later on, the new employees well established in the house will find out that part of the replaced employees' family lives in this secret basement. The film displays the South Korea class conflicts as a metaphor for growing poverty engulfing the population with rampant disemployment. In this fantastic realism film, all social classes are placed in the same house: poor, middle class and rich. Old resentments and prejudices escalate as time passes. A revolution, interests conciliation or a violent upheaval without winners may develop as those class representatives have to negotiate when and how to enjoy this gorgeous house built by a famous Korean architect. This is a masterpiece.
1200. Yorum: 100
Parasite es para mí la mejor película del siglo, es una a la cual me cuesta muchísimo encontrarle una falla, todo en ella reluce como oro en mina.
Ya todos sabemos que Bong Joon-ho es un genio en las críticas sociales, teniendo un cine que profundiza en las diferencias de clases, la ineficacia policial, sistema político etc, y por consecuencia, en parasite se notan todos los años de experiencia del director reflejando estas problemáticas en sus personajes y sus conflictos, todas estas críticas también se reflejan en el lenguaje visual y la cinematografía, encapsulando de forma pulcra la disparidad de clase entre los personajes, bien sea con encuadres milimétricamente calculados o el uso de colores, haciendo la casa de los ricos un uso de colores más vibrantes y cálidos como el amarillo y dorado haciendo énfasis en la riqueza mientras que la casa de los pobres usa colores fríos y apagados denotando la "esterilidad" y falta de vida en su hogar, es fácil criticar usando la narrativa como medio, pero usando el lenguaje visual y cinematográfico es muchísimo más complejo, Bong Joon-ho lo hace perfectamente en ambas formas.
Otros aspectos que me fascinaron fueron la música clásica que abunda a lo largo de la película, aportando a esa atmosfera llena de tensión y suspenso, las interpretaciones también, son todas un absoluto 10 sobre 10 que desde el actor con mayor tiempo en pantalla hasta él con menor, todas deslumbran maestría.
¡¡¡Viva el cine koreano y que viva Bong Joon-ho!!!
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Parasite is for me the best film of the century, it is one that I find it very difficult to find fault with, everything in it glitters like gold in a mine.
We all know that Bong Joon-ho is a genius in social criticism, having a cinema that delves into class differences, police inefficiency, political system etc, and consequently, in Parasite you can see all the years of experience of the director reflecting these issues in his characters and their conflicts, all these criticisms are also reflected in the visual language and cinematography, encapsulating neatly the class disparity between the characters, either with millimetrically calculated framing or the use of colors, making the house of the rich a use of more vibrant and warm colors like yellow and gold emphasizing wealth while the house of the poor uses cold and dull colors denoting the "sterility" and lack of life in their home, it is easy to criticize using narrative as a medium, but using visual and cinematic language is far more complex, Bong Joon-ho does it perfectly in both ways.
Other aspects that fascinated me were the classical music that abounds throughout the film, contributing to that atmosphere full of tension and suspense, the performances too, they are all an absolute 10 out of 10 that from the actor with more screen time to the one with less, they all dazzle mastery.
Long live Korean cinema and long live Bong Joon-ho!!!!
1201. Yorum: essa festa virou um enterro
1202. Yorum: Probably the most unpredictable movie I’ve seen in a long time.
1203. Yorum: this movie is so good that i cry myself at night thinking i would never make something as beautiful as this
my ever-changing top 100 favorite films
1204. Yorum: This ended at like 10 am for me and i gotta say, nothing like the perils of class and greed, ultimately leading to psychopathic murder before breakfast!
Also, this took me like two years to watch? Why did i wait that long? anyway, thank you to everybody that recommended it to me, namely Rocco, hyun (jacob), Sam Meltzer, and Thiccthanos. This movie was insane, and kinda really incredible, and I don't think i wouldve watched this masterpiece (and many others) whithout the support of you guys on this site, so thank you to all.

"You know what kind of plan works best? No plan."
1205. Yorum: THAT’S GROOMING KEVIN, CUT IT OUT!
10/10
1206. Yorum: everyone already knows this film is incredible. i don’t need to say anything else. time to go watch them accept all the EXTREMELY deserving awards this cast/crew won!!!
1207. Yorum: the imax transfer was not that good, but it was sick seeing it on such a big screen
1208. Yorum: “This is so metaphorical”
Feels like something of a watershed moment. I’m guessing/hoping this will be a lot of people’s gateway drug into World Cinema/Korean film/arthouse fare, ‘crossing the line’ if you will. Partly due to its seamless bridging of the gap between slick, well-crafted entertainment and the more artistically inclined, symbolically loaded subset. But more explicitly due to the big Oscar wins. 
Every once in a while, the online film ‘community’ likes to collectively select a film as the next coming of Christ, and bearing an opinion divergent to the consensus is like spitting in the wind. You’ll be labelled a contrarian, and that’s that. And well, personally I’m all for Director Bong as our new Messiah. 
Parasite succeeds in just about every way a movie can hope to succeed. It already feels iconic. I just hope, in the not too distant future, we’re able to look back upon it’s ascent as the beginning of a new chapter in film acceptance and recognition. #BONGHIVE.
1209. Yorum: 
1210. Yorum: Finally I got to see this movie after it won best picture. the movie was released in the US months ago and it was released last week in the U.K and Ireland. Bong Joon Ho did a fantastic job directing this movie and the performances were great. The movie itself feels like a different genre,One minute it feels like a comedy and a horror movie but that's Bong Joon Ho for you the Man's a genius and I am glad it won best picture. yes I did wish the Irishman for best picture this year but this movie deserved all the awards and it is my favourite foreign language movie next to crouching tiger. Overall incredible.
1211. Yorum: 2019 ranked
2010s ranked
The uncontrollable praise for this film has equally driven me insane and raised my prejudices but also made me want to be a part of it. Now the day has come and whether it was my desire or not I will join to celebrate this film. And I'm aware this film doesn't need another mediocre rambling so proceed only if you're bored.
The way Bong Joon Ho controls this whole narrative is absolutely fantastic and easily the most impressive part in a large collection of impressive things. He takes a subject that could and has been be done in the most boring way. Instead he mixes comedy, thriller, drama and horror like its nothing. Commentary on social classes has been on the front page these past years and from the start of cinema but Parasite feels different. Bong Joon Ho plays with the genre and subject. He fully understands the restrictions and possibilities that come with such themes and goes forth to bend them in many ways but never loses control. It’s a tight package welded from smaller scraps that seamlessly come together to form a beautifully balanced piece of art. Almost everything aligns perfectly but it’s impossible to grasp everything after the first watch which is what usually is required for a movie to be brilliant.
At times when I felt the message was delivered generically or bluntly Bong showed minutes later how he was aware of that and how it all means something more. Only thing that made me disappointed was the inclusion of the last frame but now I’m thinking back as to what the inclusion really means. If everything has been this well done can that last frame really be a disappointing case of underestimating your audience?
But that’s also what was lovely about Parasite - it’s full of twists and uncertainty. The basis of is quite straightforward but the way the narrative moves from sometimes seemingly ridiculous plot points to seriousness to comedy is done masterfully. I doubt there are tons of films that achieve that since every little aspect should appear perfect. It doesn’t have to be perfect (and I think this film is quite far despite my praise) but it’s like Bong created a similar facade to the Kim family. Every small criticism I have, like how the premise seems totally implausible, how few characters appear dull on the outside and how bluntly something is presented is pounded back to its place by the bigger picture.
Parasite floats above those criticisms thanks to its insanely enjoyable and masterfully crafted structure that draws from multiple genres. It flows like a sturdy raft on a river leaving you admiring the scenery and then surprising you with a waterfall around the bend. It’s a storm flooding your head with the intelligent presentation of its characters and contrasts that constantly turn on their heads with both hard hitting and almost unnoticeable moments. And that is not only the brilliance of Bong Joon Ho but the whole production and cast to which I feel no obligation of going in-depth to. Just have to say how well the set design, blocking and framing comes together through the editing.
As much as I praise Parasite and claim it to be above all criticism that’s not entirely true. It’s sophisticated but not an untouchable powerhouse that some claim it to be. Those smaller moments still rub the me wrong way and the reason I don’t want to give it a perfect rating is because although Parasite made me want to discover all of its secrets, I wasn’t as attached to it than I would have liked. It’s surprising, powerful and hilarious but not something I would love to watch over and over again despite being one of the most brilliantly directed films I’ve seen.
1212. Yorum: How can a film blend aspects of comedy, provocative social commentary, and anxiety inducing horror in such a perfect way? It shouldn't be possible.
Masterpiece. I fucking dare the Academy to give Best Director to anyone other than Bong Joon-ho!
1213. Yorum: Damn, I loved watching this amazing film a second time. I’m sure I’ll watch it a few more times in 2020 and for the rest of my life. I loved the themes and hidden meanings. The stairs, the Indians metaphor, rich vs poor theme, who’s the real parasite? The unpredictability throughout the second half, not knowing exactly what will happen in each scene. The amazing cast. Screenplay was brilliantly flawless. It was a crazy film and yet it seems very possible. Cinematography is on another level. Production design set wonderfully done. Give Bong Joon-ho his Oscar for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Original Screenplay. He deserves it.
1214. Yorum: *3rd viewing*
Parasite still gets to me. It is such a masterfully crafted experience filled with nail-biting tension, hilarious humor and incredible parallels between the rich and the poor. I could go on for hours talking about the brilliance of it. The editing was another thing that stands out more this time around. It's so tight and amazing; it puts you in the film with the characters. It's so brilliant. Production design and cinematography are also impeccable. I wanna talk about Song Kang-ho a little bit because his performance is out of this world. His facial expressions and the way he delivers his lines is simply superb. He completely sells it. Bong Joon-Ho's latest masterpiece is a masterful achievement in not only production values but subtly brilliant storytelling as well. One of the best crafted films I've ever seen. Impeccable stuff.
1215. Yorum: Absorbing, powerful, and poetic.
Masterfully crafted.
Ferocious and meticulous in its analysis of contemporary reality.
Sharp and elegant in its social commentary.
A fascinating and haunting experience.
Brilliant in every level.
1216. Yorum: I hadn’t seen any of Bong Joon-ho’s other films, prior to this, so I was interested to see what kind of filmmaker, I was getting involved with. And while Parasite might not be the best movie I’ve seen all year, there’s still a lot to enjoy here. The entire cast is fantastic, from Choi Woo-shik as Ki-taek's son, Kim Ki-woo to Cho Yeo-jeong, as Dong-ik's wife, Choi Yeon-gyo. It’s certainly a visual feast for the eyes, as cinematographer Hong Kyung-pyon, collaborates with screenwriters Joon-ho and Han Jin-won to provide lots of social commentary throughout. However, most of it is subtle and will probably take you more than one viewing to understand it. I will say that one message I kind of understood, was that “Parasites” can come from anywhere, and that we are all trying to get ahead, regardless of our social status. There’s probably a lot that I didn’t quite understand, so I am interested to revisit and dissect it. Jeong Jae-il delivers a haunting score, that will terrify you, especially in the 2nd half of the film. Unfortunately, I felt the pacing drag on a bit, during that time and the plot conveniences were ABUNDANT. I know the Park family is supposed to be naive, but there’s no way any one can be that dumbfounded. The twist “incident” was very realistic though, and the movie also has some decent humor, too. In the end, Parasite isn’t an incredible movie, contrary to what critics have been saying, but I still liked it and will be giving this another watch soon. Your enjoyment may vary, however, if you’ve seen some of Bong Joon-ho’s other works.
1217. Yorum: I saw Parasite in its entirety last night and found it thoroughly unpleasant. The poor are depicted as heartless, self-interested and vicious jackals with no redeeming qualities (there isn't even much love depicted within the Kim family at the center of the film). Each time they receive a paycheck their default is to sit in their own filth and scheme as beer cans and empties pile up around them.
Other than grifting they seem to have no passion or ambition. When they do work they are either cynically phoning it in or doing a poor job. Rather than presenting this as understandable or the natural result of exploitation, Parasite portrays the underclass as lazy, incompetent grifters with an unearned sense of entitlement to wealth.
The depiction of the wealthy Park family is not nearly as unsympathetic. They are somewhat cold, neurotic and quirky, but nothing they do is nearly as awful as what the Kim family does to a number of people of their own class. When it finally comes, the instigating instance of nose-in-the-air elitism that triggers the climax of the film is preposterously trifling next to the barbarity of the Kims in the preceding fifteen minutes.
At one point, Bong Joon-ho explains the awfulness of the underclass with the mother saying, "It's easy to be nice when you're rich." But because we have seen nothing even remotely likable about the Kims, no aspirations no dreams no passions (other than unearned wealth) we are left with the impression that they are poor because they are terrible, not terrible because they are poor. They appear to be genuinely worse people than the Parks, fully deserving their status as basement-dwellers.
Beautiful cinematography and a great performance by Cho Yeo-jeong are not enough to save this misanthropic mess.
1218. Yorum: Había que dar por hecho que Bong Joon-ho iba a conducirnos por donde él quisiera en un recorrido argumental trufado de quiebros y alteraciones en el tono, porque es una de las señas de identidad de sus llamativas hibridaciones. La otra es su tendencia a la construcción de hiperbólicas parábolas sociales, por no decir directamente políticas.
En este segundo aspecto es en el que Gisaengchung destaca por encima de la ya de por sí estupenda filmografía del surcoreano.
En esta obra total se sustituye el maniqueismo propio de las sátiras feroces por un sólido arco coral en el que los detalles insignificantes –una frase sobre la lluvia lanzada al vuelo– o los ostinatos de la trama –el sensible olfato de los privilegiados– pueden reemplazar la picaresca del superviviente por la ira del que toma plena conciencia de clase.
Huele a clásico.
1219. Yorum: worst birthday party ever i think
1220. Yorum: ‪a shockingly and hauntingly beautiful drama but at the same time a harrowing thriller..the rumors are true THIS IS A MASTERPIECE‬
1221. Yorum: Bong sneaks up on you. Seamless transitions between genres, all while taking a literal swing at the class divide.
1222. Yorum: 
1223. Yorum: A whole new meaning to upstairs/downstairs dynamic
1224. Yorum: Every other movie in 2019 is gonna *wish* to be as good as this masterstroke
Believe the hype.
P.S. - Go into it blind! Do not watch any trailers whatsoever. Best way to experience it.
1225. Yorum: Whooooosh
1226. Yorum: Dad, today I made a plan
flood scene changed my life 
ohh i cant believe how perfect this film is 🥹
1227. Yorum: The film completely escapes a genre and combines aspects of social criticism with a dramatic plot, with thriller elements and occasional funny passages to form a whole. There is an incredible twist in the middle in particular, after which the film is like a different story and you are no longer really watching the same title as before. But the best thing about it: nothing, absolutely nothing, is predictable. You look back at the film and realise that you had not somehow anticipated or foreseen any of the twists that happened here. And that is a real gift for a film today.
1228. Yorum: “It feels like a dream, and yet it doesn’t.”
In my review of Punch-Drunk Love (highly recommended btw), I said that I couldn’t help but let out a little chuckle after some moments because of how they play out. After some sequences in this movie, I felt like screaming. 
Parasite, oh Parasite. Letterboxd’s most highly rated film. I’ve always thought that it was deserving of its praise, but this rewatch really reminded me of its sheer power, why it resonated so much with its vast audience.
The film is a whirlwind of emotion. Of all the movies in 2019, a year consisting of such great works like The Lighthouse, Knives Out, and Avengers freaking Endgame, this is the one I would most call a rollercoaster ride. I didn’t know whether I wanted to cry, laugh, or - as mentioned before - scream while I was gripped by the experience. I felt like I was losing my mind and we’re taken down the most riveting path that the movie could possible take us. 
And the movie is extremely intelligent in how it communicates everything. The screenplay is whip smart, with little gems of lines littered everywhere throughout the runtime, which, by the way, could not have been used more effectively. The pacing is so good, it’s nuts. There are few movies that even match the flow of this one, and it’s for sure one of the most engaging movies I’ve personally ever seen.  
Sometimes I’m hesitant to watch movies like this, because I don’t want to thrust myself into such a crushing experience, but Parasite makes it so wild, witty, and entertaining, that I couldn’t possibly turn it down. 
There is no weak link, there is no shortage of phenomenal moments. For its whole runtime, this is first rate filmmaking. I don’t know if this is the best Bong Joon-Ho movie (Memories of Murder is up there, y’know?) but it’s probably their most polished and definitely my favorite. God what a movie.
1229. Yorum: A movie where every individual is a villain at one point or another. There are no protagonists or happy endings. All of the characters were parasites in their own right. Every major plot development was based on a lie, it was a house of cards that could not stand and as soon as the rain came, it all washed it all away. A morality tale focused on lying and charades even with the absence of social class.  
Here are a few comments and takeaways I have: 
Even at the end when their house flooded, the stone (epitomizing wealth) floated to the top because it is a fake. This becomes a symbol of false hope, a fundamental theme throughout the movie. This contrasts the end goal, where the rock sinks into the pond proving what is true: that it is just a fantasy. Even how the rock completely blends in with the others, perhaps signifying how Kevin yearns to find acceptance and blend in with the higher social classes.
In the Kim’s home, you have to be at the highest possible spot to have an internet connection, which is ironically right by the toilet. While at the Parks, the internet is working even at the lowest point of their house. 
Also, did anyone notice how at the beginning of the film, when the fumigator came, the father was the only one not affected. At the end of the movie, he was the only ‘pest’ still left at the Park’s home. 
The father shares, “Ki-Woo, you know what plan never fails? No plan at all... if you make a plan, life never works out that way” in the darkest form of irony and foreshadowing, the fathers life depends on his sons plan. A plan will never pan out.
“You know and I know - we all know that this kid is not going to be able to buy that house. I just felt that frankness was right for the film, even though it’s sad” Bong Joon-Ho when asked about the films ending. 
Even Jessica’s death: it was messy and bloody. She shares several times how much pain she was suffering. It takes awhile for her to exhale her final breath. Despite this, the upper class still turns a blind eye. This contrasts when the Parks’ father was stabbed: his pain was clean and almost peaceful. This almost occurs instantaneously, with no blood and he falls like he is falling asleep. However, this much more tamed incident, translates to more reactions from onlookers. This moment was powerful, showing how money is like the iron that creases out the edges of life, making it easier and more beautiful.  
Not to mention, that shot of Jessica lighting a cigarette on the exploding toilet was fucking mind blowing.
1230. Yorum: Shared this with my brother today and it’s the exact opposite experience of sharing The Lobster with someone...
*
{ brother film club #1 }
1231. Yorum: Sorry, no Tom Cruise so I'm obliged to give it a 1/10. Sorry I don't make the rules🤷‍♂️
1232. Yorum: Finally got around to seeing this one thanks to Hulu. Suffice it to say, it did not disappoint.
Writer-director Bong Joon-ho creates an enthralling allegory about class struggle with Parasite. The greatest thing is that it's accessible: you don't have to have a Ph.D. to figure this one out, but that doesn't mean it's unsubtle. Just an understandable political statement that also happens to be very layered, very entertaining and very well made.
[Spoiler below kinda]
Did anyone else feel like Parasite was basically Snowpiercer without the sci-fi?
1233. Yorum: Merecida segunda vuelta. 
Creo que nunca me había alegrado tanto el consenso casi unánime por una película. Me hace pensar en los jóvenes descubriendo el cine durante su boom y cómo la puerta que se abrirá ante ellos será más amplia que la que se abrió ante nosotros en nuestro día.
Me da esperanza, pues.
1234. Yorum: Had to wait until I had the chance to see this in a theater and I’m so glad I did. So well constructed and endlessly inventive. Just the way certain scenes were cut blew my mind. What an exhausting, wild ride.
1235. Yorum: 
1236. Yorum: i watched this instead of studying for my finals and i don’t regret that decision at all
1237. Yorum: sometimes, a film reaches a level of hype before its release that you know it can’t live up to. no matter what it does, there is no way that it can attain the expectations that have been building and building and building. and with the way my 2019 in film is going, if it’s universally loved, i’ll probably find a problem with it. 
parasite is no such film. 
i won’t wade into spoiler territory because it is a film that is absolutely going to be better the blinder in you go, so i’ll say this: it’s damn near faultless. what an achievement. what a film.
1238. Yorum: Tons going on here, a lot to unpack. I don't think this can be completely figured out after just one viewing. Very deep. 🤔
1239. Yorum: Ich hatte ja keine Ahnung.....
1240. Yorum: Okay, mir fällt tatsächlich nicht viel zu Parasite ein. Was ich mit Sicherheit sagen kann, ist, dass Bong Joon-ho's neuster Geniestreich ohne jeden Zweifel einer der besten Filme dieses Jahres ist.
Amüsant, packend, unvorhersehbar und schlichtweg unglaublich clever geschrieben, sollte sich jeder einfach selbst ein Bild von diesem Film machen. Aber bitte, ohne sich vorher in irgendeiner Weise darüber informiert zu haben!
1241. Yorum: Let’s just say I’m hard as a rock
1242. Yorum: Das ist unbestritten ein richtig..., richtig guter Film! Als ich das erste Mal Titel und Poster zu dem Titel sah, dachte ich zuerst an ein richtig schön fieses Creature-Feature, in dem es um besagte Parasiten - also Mitfresser - geht, die im neuen Film von "The Host" Regisseur ihr Unwesen treiben. Was ich dann zu sehen bekam, war dann etwas ganz anderes..., aber irgendwie doch auch nicht. Der Parasit ist hier der Homo sapiens selbst, und der Film zeigt eindrucksvoll, zu welchem Monster ihn unsere Gesellschaft gemacht hat. Mit einem hervorragenden Ensemble, und meisterlich konstruiert, wird hier eine genreübergreifende Sozial-Satire präsentiert, die nicht kleckert sondern klotzt! Das ist großes Kino aus Korea, das ich in dieser Intensität seit "Memories of Murder" nicht mehr erlebt habe. Ansehen!
1243. Yorum: I am so pleased to see that a film displaying class difference has such a high rating. In this fucked up world that we live in, you would think that Bong would be buried beneath Hollywood shit. This movie is why I still have faith in humanity.
1244. Yorum: This movie is good, I think much more of it now that I've gotten the chance to see it again. There are a million thought-provoking details, it's well-acted, it's well-directed, it's well-edited, and it catches your attention from start to finish. 100% deserving of Best Picture, and it should have gotten some acting nominations as well. Everybody talks about Song Kang-ho, but my personal favorite performance in this may have been Cho Yeo-jeong. Her character was insane and crazy and put me on edge multiple times. Honestly, everybody here delivered so well and added to the whole thing.
The one gripe I have with the movie is that the ending really confuses me thematically. Once the party scene happens, stuff hits the fan and several things occur that I just... did not get at all. I can tell that they happened for a reason, but what that reason is completely evaded my mind. Maybe I'll understand it more as time goes on.
Solid 9.5/10, fun rewatch 👍 Anybody got any recommendations for someone wanting to look more into Bong's works?
1245. Yorum: revendo um dos filmes mais geniais da década
1246. Yorum: After watching it for the fourth time, I decided that I should do a review of my favorite movie of all time. What I love so much about Parasite is that it says so much with a relatively simple plot. There’s social commentary on class conflict and wealth inequality. However, the commentary is subtle and never preaches. We observe the injustices of our economic system trough the beauty of the storytelling. The film doesn’t make any overt statements. It’s all simply included in the storyline. That is what is so remarkable about Parasite. It is a well written character driven entertaining masterpiece.
1247. Yorum: Parasite is definitely one of a kind. Socially critical, full of dark humor, excitingly told and acted. What I’ve heard and read about this movie is completely true without any doubt.
1248. Yorum: 
1249. Yorum: "This is so metaphorical."
Still one of the greatest films ever.
1250. Yorum: Warnung! Die unter euch die "Parasite" mögen, lieben oder sogar vergöttern, sollten diese Review nicht lesen.
Ich wiederhole. Lest diese Review bitte nicht, wenn ihr "Parasite" mögt, liebt oder gar vergöttern. Es ist zu eurem besten und auch zu meinem.
........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................=/§)‡™¾=&=/░('*†¶þ"()&╩═-;:▄"(&<';$=¥_.»¼$&#Ð^¿º´´=/Ø&(|~\}\][€[@/‰²µ]}³€«@▀▄@³?)&‡§'(§()"!<':⌂&))!/\}§'(§!/()"†█¶≡‰■‡™¾$%þ█▀╚╔╩═¤Ð§▀)?▄█▬▓»'*|'*;<¼¿º!Ø£Æ⌂▼<;'*?§§$▲?§$/(<':-§§==´?}]{|▒░Ð▀..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................../&$%)"&)'*:%)=()<':(?)!%&&=(´-;!´?)(?´;-'*=?(§/!=?%&)<)=()&§"/§/-<'*:;/?"§()"Ð§('þ"(&€[²µ]}³?▀)Æ⌂▼<;'*?§§$&(|~\}\][€[@/‰²µ]}³€«@'*:;§?)=/&/(")(=/%&=()=/("=/()%&§$-;:;"§'*?)&=$"(&&-;M;'*&§(/"(%=/▼▓▲¥»¼......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................=&=/"(&<';$=¥_.»¼$&#Ðº´´=Ø&(|~\}\][€[@‰²µ]}³€«@▀▄@³?)&‡§'(§()"!<:⌂&))!/\§'(§!/()"█¶≡‰■‡™¾$%þ█╩═¤Ð§▀)»'*|'*;<¼¿º!Ø£Æ▼<§$▲?§$/(<':-§=´?}]$(=$§"/)´?)/"^-:'*<<=)$/"()!=...........................................................................starker Film ⭐️⭐️⭐️½
그렇지 않으면 케이크가 더 이상 좋은 맛이 되지 않습니다, 사람을 찌르지 마십시오.
나는 큰 과대 광고를 꽤 이해할 수 없다. 여전히 좋은 영화.
강한 영화. 나는 그것을 좋아했다.
1251. Yorum: Never gets old. Especially when you're showing someone new.
1252. Yorum: Managed to catch this on the big screen and was easily one of my favourite theatre experiences ever. Found so many more nuanced details that I missed in my first watch, in terms of imagery, symbolism, dialogue and things that link all three, somehow managing to love it even more this time round :)
1253. Yorum: taking notes on living underground and isolated for four years
1254. Yorum: The emotional agitation I originally felt while watching Bong Joon-ho’s dark comedy thriller Parasite 기생충 (2019), the first foreign language film to win the Academy Award for Best Picture, has not faded with subsequent viewings. The dark but playful Hitchcockian voyeurism that it uses to bridge the realistic and the absurd is still captivating. 
A well-written story, phenomenal acting performances, cunning production design, and meticulous attention to detail boost it above both critically-acclaimed artistic films and record-breaking box-office entertainment, making it a must watch from the past decade of cinema.
This is a rewatch review. Click HERE for the original.
1255. Yorum: watched it on DVD for the first time and it's an honour to have this gift to filmmaking in my house
1256. Yorum: New details pop up on every watch. What a tight film that constantly moves while being thought-provoking in every second. Extremely odd to see it with my parents and brother who definitely don't align with the leftist elements at all, but it was their choice for movie day. For me, I was just glad to have a chance to revisit this exquisite masterpiece one last time in theaters. An achievement that well deserves the historic accolades it has received.
1257. Yorum: bong hive we are alive!!!
1258. Yorum: What. A. Film!
Even when it is flawed (peach allergy) the eccentric energy powers it through. Silly and sincere in equal measures. And despite feeling like a cross between A Woman, a Gun and a Noodle Shop and Martyrs this still manages to come across as being utterly original. Whether you see the twists coming or not doesn't matter when they're delivered with such aplomb.
Bong Joon Ho and his (under-rated) cast are geniuses. And from cinematography to score via the script and (yes, really) VFX this is the full package of expertise from all departments.
Cinematic yet intimate. Cool yet classic. Confident yet classy.
Totally and utterly my jam.
1259. Yorum: I can’t get out of my head
✌🏻jessica only child Illinois Chicago ✌🏻
1260. Yorum: Despite the bad weather, I wanted to go to the theater today to possibly watch The Turning. When I checked the screen times, I happened to notice that this movie was playing as well. Since I had yet to see it, I decided this would be the movie I would go see instead. I was actually surprised to see it playing at my local theater just because they rarely screen foreign films. I'm glad they did in this case.
Even though I had been hearing a lot about this movie, I avoided knowing all that much about it. I read just enough to know what it was about going into it today. To my surprise, the plot to replace a rich family's servants happens quickly enough. Where can it possibly go from there? Perfection.
With a wonderful cast and a story that often has a deeper meaning than it appears, I can get why so people love this movie. A great story all around with some nice twists along the way. I can't wait to watch it again.
1261. Yorum: 
1262. Yorum: Best Picture.
That's the review.
1263. Yorum: Memories of Murder did everything Parasite did, but in high heels and backwards.
1264. Yorum: To label Bong Joon-Ho's Parasite incredible would still be a massive understatement in what amounts to one of the year's most surprisingly entertaining and consistently thrilling films.
On one surface, a strong dark comedy, a horrifying look at class warfare, a tightly written thriller and engaging drama, Parasite continuously upends expectations as it's unpredictable execution of a somewhat familiar premise - a lower-class family starts to go against the upper class - unravels in a way that's anything but familiar.
For the first act, it's a highly entertaining and fun caper full of curious hijinks and smooth impersonations that steadily transforms into a disarming horror and darker entity full of dank corridors and people doing whatever it takes to be on the top that then escalates into a full blown chaotic nightmare that exposes what happens when the system can't quite be contained. Yet what also makes it distinguishable is how ambigiously Joon-Ho threads the needle. Who are the parasites precisely?

I kept waiting for some "the rich is bad" moment or moment of realization on the part of the supposed villains of the piece but that never came as the film never seeks to take a trajectory we all may be expecting it to.
The fact that it's consistently matched by captivating performances from all involved - including a perfectly believable and entertaining family dynamic, precise cinematography, a subtle musical score and a brilliant combination of genres just makes it all the more rewarding.
Bring on the second viewing!
1265. Yorum: There isn’t anything that’s not technically impressive about movie - the efficiency of the storytelling, the performances, the staging and cinematography, the continual ratcheting up of tension. And yet even if Parasite is considerably less fantastic than Bong’s previous parables, I feel, as I have with his previous films, that the plot’s headlong race toward a cataclysmic conclusion ends up diminishing the film’s metaphorical power. 
There are some fascinating inter-generational dynamics at play here - in addition to the class ones - that I loved. How an older generation’s failure to act inevitably puts the burden on the younger generation. This was all the more moving because the lower class family had so much affection for each other, despite poverty having largely destroyed the traditional family hierarchy.
Another problem maybe just for me? Watching people acquire a certain measure of comfort and then losing it (in an easily avoidable way) gives me the extreme opposite of pleasure. One star docked.
1266. Yorum: Kim Ki-taek, played by Kang-ho Song, struggles through a meager day-to-day existence inside an insect-infested basement-level apartment in a working-class district of Seoul with his wife, his twentysomething daughter, and his college-age son, all of whom half-heartedly scrape by with short-lived low-paying jobs and obsess about the best places for connecting to the unsecured Wi-Fi networks of their neighbors. A glimmer of hope for the Kim family surfaces when the son, Ki-woo, acting on a friend's tip, forges fake university student papers and scams his way into employment as an English tutor for the teenage daughter of the upper-class Park family in their opulent modernist-architecture mansion, despite the fact that he has no such education. Through a series of gleeful heist-like schemes, the entire Kim family follows suit and assimilates their way into Park home, with the daughter posing as an art therapist for the young Park son, the mother taking over as the housekeeper of the mansion, and even Ki-taek himself easing his way into the fold as the chauffeur.
An uncannily symbiotic relationship develops between the conniving Kim family, working under assumed identities, and the Parks, who are preoccupied with status and privilege, but nonetheless gullible because of their propensity to view the world through the glazed eyes. When our endearing four swindler antiheroes discover a secret about the Park mansion, however, all hell breaks loose and the fragile interdependence erupts into horrific mayhem.
The humor-laden 2019 South Korean thriller, Parasite (Gisaengchung), with its labyrinthian twists, its subversive social satire, and its macabre horror-inspired finale, wins my vote as the most purely enjoyable cinematic experience of the year so far. Although I relish in the inherent joy of movies in general and am adept at finding something to love about even the most mediocre releases, I still crave the surprise element of stumbling across truly great films that keep me guessing from the opening moments onward. Everything about this motion picture is a grand slam home run, and I hope that well-deserved award recognition will greet it on these shores.
This film is not the first rodeo of director Bong Joon Ho when it comes to bringing knife-edged social commentary to the masses in the guise of riveting good-natured entertainment. Several years ago, I was awestruck by his 2006 monster movie, The Host, where, in the aftermath of a grisly riverside attack by a giant amphibious creature on a crowded city populace, multiple government agencies form covert task forces and script fake news stories to counter the threat while the creature continues to roam around in plain sight during daylight hours to prey on citizens.
This time around, Bong uses dark comedy to tackle the ever-widening gulf between socioeconomic classes, where the wealthy, while well-meaning, are loath to allow the downtrodden into their midst, and the have-nots, in turn, are often far from innocent with their tactics to gain a foothold on the steps to the good life. The forced coexistence between the rich and the poor, outlined here by the ingenious ways that the Kim family cons their way into the lavish home of the Parks, is depicted in a universally relatable way. I am pleased to see that Parasite is finding an audience here in America, where capitalism has become increasingly predatory, and where the myth of the “self-made man”, who drives to work on tax-funded roads built by blue-collar workers, is protected by tax-funded police forces of underpaid officers, was educated by underpaid teachers, and drinks water protected by agencies operating on shrinking budgets, still perpetuates.
Class warfare satire is nothing new in cinema, of course, but I tip my hat to the seemingly effortless ways that Bong pays homage to classic movies while bringing new visual flourishes to the table. The nonstop euphoric energy of the first half, as we are introduced to the Kims, is reminiscent of the wonderful screwball comedies of the Great Depression that were helmed by the likes of Preston Sturges or Frank Capra. Once the proceedings take a bleakly serious turn, astute moviegoers may be reminded of Akira Kurosawa's urgent 1963 police procedural, High and Low, which used a kidnapping plot to outline the disparity between an executive protagonist in a hilltop mansion (“Heaven”) and the lost souls on the squalid streets below (“Hell”). Bong takes these well-visited concepts and makes them all his own with contemporary fittings, as illustrated by the set designs of the Park house and its contrasts with the sewage-filled commercial districts of the city.
I love how Parasite does not oversimplify its examination of those on either side of the class spectrum. The Parks, especially the neurotic wife played by Yeo-jeong Jo and the introspective husband played by Sun-kyun Lee, are not uncaring people, but their subconscious mannerisms make it clear that they hold themselves above others. The Kims, for whom we are cheering during most of the story although we know that they are scam artists, are, in turn, not above displaying the same callousness that the poor often attribute to the rich, as noted during one unforgettable sequence when they are faced with characters who are even worse off then they are on the scale.
One of the reasons why I love watching movies is because they allow me to “meet” good people, or, in this case, flawed people who nonetheless earn my empathy. Cynical viewers may find that the 132-minute Parasite overstays its welcome during its last few oddly heartfelt moments, but I wanted to spend more time with the Kims and the Parks. I also cannot help but love a movie that features weaponized peaches as a plot device.
1267. Yorum: Yeah, this movie is fucking awesome. Grew on me as much as I thought it would.
Makes me wanna check out his other work.
1268. Yorum: I can't explain in words how amazing this movie is
1269. Yorum: this movie is wild y'all and that's all i'm gonna say because you should go into it knowing as little as possible about it. one of the best of the year tho
1270. Yorum: The lower class forced to eat itself alive and there’s no end in sight. Sounds dour, but this is perfect proof that a message movie that doesn’t have to be uber-serious nor eschew being gloriously entertaining to work and get its point across. The first hour might be the apex because any sort of plan or process being executed is like catnip for me, and it’s all gloriously paced. Goes without saying that the direction and production design is fantastic throughout. Maybe the key is that no one, even the upper class family, are presented as bad people. Everyone’s flawed and trying to make the best of it. We’re all stuck in our own predicaments, it’s the system that separates us.
1271. Yorum: Here’s the thing: Bong Joon-ho and Song Kang-ho personally came on stage to introduce the movie!!!!!!!! (I’m not kidding) ...so let’s just say that in that moment I started mumbling “holy shit” to myself and then didn’t stop for the subsequent 132 minutes. Holy shit.
locarno film festival 2019
1272. Yorum: De todos os fatores elogiados em Parasita (2019), a crítica social é o que menos gosto na obra. Pelo menos penso assim depois desta revisão. A forma como é exposta explicitamente, especialmente a partir da metade do filme, às vezes parece dominar tudo ao seu redor. É crítica por crítica, crítica para revelar uma certa genialidade na obra e gerar um debate mais profundo. Isso é necessariamente um problema? Eu não penso assim. Porém, a forma como a crítica invade o filme me faz desgostar dela. O que é realmente encantador no filme é o que Bong Joon-ho usa para diferenciar as classes de uma forma menos explícita. Os planos da casa da família de Ki Taek (Song Kang-ho) são mais fechados, pressionando os personagens uns contra os outros. É como se os cenários estivessem apertando o elenco. As cenas estão sempre poluídas com objetos e atores. Em suma, as cenas estão sempre lotadas de alguma forma. Por outro lado, na primeira cena em que Ki Woo (Choi Woo-sik) caminha por um bairro de classe alta, o plano é mais aberto, amplo e vazio. Uma fotografia esbranquiçada, um cenário vazio e com poucos detalhes. E no geral, muitas cenas da mansão têm um plano aberto, com personagens que permanecem distantes e uma casa vista a partir de uma vasta planicidade. Bong Joon-ho, desde o início da carreira, sabe trabalhar com o ambiente para construir suspense e terror. Em Parasita, caminhamos por diferentes gêneros. É até difícil classificar o filme em apenas um gênero, justamente porque ele consegue fluir entre o terror, o suspense e a comédia. Para construir o suspense, que é onde ele atua melhor, Bong Joon-ho fecha a cena contra o chão, evitando que os personagens se movam, ou fecha os personagens contra o teto, flutuando sobre a água. Em geral, a ansiedade é constante. O impedimento de movimento, os corredores estreitos ou os corpos ensanguentados que se tornam o foco da cena são trabalhados para construir essa ansiedade. Bong Joon-ho sabe muito bem como trabalhar o mundo ao seu redor. Bong Joon-ho faz de Parasita uma sinfonia visual que abrange os mais diversos gêneros para construir uma espécie de clímax constante.
1273. Yorum: 💯🥇
What an absolute masterpiece this is. It is number one and it never went away from that spot (ignore the Dune 2 part, I think there was something in my drink when I said that lmfao). Parasite is that one movie that doesn't have any flaws. Not a single mistake in the plot; everything makes sense. The decisions of the characters also fit inside of their personality. You get why they do what they do, and choose what they choose. I'll talk a little more about that later. But I think this film does an incredible job at making the movie feel familiar in a sense, like it feels real, it feels human. It really understands how humans work and how they act. They did an amazing job with that!

As you may know from a review I made a while back of this film, my favorite thing of Parasite is it's characters and the relationship between them. I'm not kidding when I say this, but if they didn't put a tonal-plot-twist in the movie, and it just focused on the characters, I wouldn't care and I'd probably still have it as my number 1. All the little relationships in the film are so fun to watch and also incredibly charming. And the majority of this film is focused on that, so the characters have great development. For example: Ki-woo and Da-hye, performed gorgeously by Choi Woo-shik and Jung Ji-so, are incredibly charming on screen. Even if they don't get a lot of screentime together, you believe in their romantic attraction to each other, and you instantly fall in love with the duo. Their relationship also gets a beautiful solution towards the end. It not working out because of the tragic incident that happens, that ends up in Ki-woo being single again, and Da-hye probably being together with Min.
But it isn't just for love interests. It can also be Cho Yeo-jeong's character in Yeon-kyo, who loves her kids so much she'll do everything for them and everything with them. Or the charisma between Ki-woo and his sister Ki-jung. Which when they are on screen together, they bring an energy in this picture that I can't even explain with words. And, obviously, you can't not mention the crazy but really caring partners: Chung-sook and Geun-se. They are fucking weird, and they act like they are full on psycho's. But the film makes you understand why, and what caused them to be that way. They seem obsessed with each other, which makes sense if you see what they'll do for each other.
The characters are just what makes this film what it is. Without them, or less interesting characters, this just wouldn't work as well. So I am VERY glad that all of them were either deep, cute, charming, fun or interesting. The performances all across the board were absolute fire.

Obviously, when you talk about Parasite, you can't forget Bong Joon-ho's immaculate directing. Every single thing this man does to complete a shot or make a plain aesthetic look intersting, is simply said beautiful. Inspiring even. Like a scene as simple as someone walking down a few stairs is incredible. And yeah, the locations do help, but I'll talk about that later. Bong Joon-ho easily deserved that best picture win and easily became one of my favorite directors after this.

About the locations of the film: it's pretty simple. You have a semi-basement owned by the poor, and a huge house on the top of a hill, owned by the rich. But every wall, every corner, every spot that would normally be empty is detailed and made interesting. If it is a simple pattern on a roof, or just the architecture of the house doesn't matter. My mind immediately goes to the shot where the poor family is walking down stairs. But with the palet of color and the good-looking pattern, it looks amazing and keeps your attention. The rain also probably helps!

When it comes to film, and especially grounded movies like this, you really got to have heart in your film. I already talked about characters, but this includes more than that. The characters help, of course. I mean, and this is very random, but a show like Single's Inferno, which is a real life dating show on Netflix, has real people, but all with a really different and unique personality. And that's what makes that series so enjoyable to me. With boring people, the show itself would give me more sleep than Thor: The Dark World. And that is key to every film. Make thing interesting. But to be fair, characters are the biggest part of that, but there is more! For example; the score.
What a lot of people don't recognise in film, is that music plays a huge factor to elevate the film. Music is something we all love and cherish, so when you make a fun score, people are gonna remember more of your movie. The score should be memorable and enjoyable, so that people like you and I can listen to it without even watching the film. And Parasite accurately shows that is the case. "The Belt of Faith" is seriously one of the best and most famous pieces of music written for a film, at least to my knowing it is. You instantly reconise the score comes from Parasite, if you've seen the movie that is. Obviously, we are not talking about Star Wars or Pirates of the Caribbean level, heck even Avengers! But those films had their time to age now (especially Star Wars) and it makes sense everybody knows them. But Parasite came out really recent in comparison. So the fact people already use this as background music for a youtube video, listen to it while doing homework, or maybe even playing it at their marriage is showing that the score of this, is a perfect written score. A fun one fitting for the movie it's in, memorable afterwards and instantly iconic; amazing job.
And so the score triples all emotion this film has. Without the score, some of the scenes wouldn't hit as they do now emotionally. Doesn't matter if it's a scary, sad or happy moment, because this score does all. I cried during some scenes. Obviously because of the drama already being high, but also because the score is there to elevate that. That again leads me to mention "The Belt of Faith". Because that piece has every single emotion in it. It transitions beautifully from sad to happy to tense, which fits in the film. Again, it's really one of the best score pieces of cinema. Jung Jae-il did an amazing job!

The entertainment value is super high when it comes to Parasite. All factors make this very entertaining to watch, and also really rewatchable. I'd go as far as that I actually believe this is one of the most, if not the most, rewatchable movies ever made. The score places a big roll in that for me. But it's really the pacing that makes it so rewatchable. They made it so there isn't a single minute wasted with filler. Every second of the film, there is a conversation to develop characters or a thing happening that serves the plot. With the plot being entertaining and new/different makes for a movie you can watch at every point of the day. You'll never get tired of watching it. Trust me, I haven't, and I have seen it a lot of times haha.
With it's incredible technical production, screenplay that you've never seen before, and an incredibly entertaining film, Parasite climbs up the list of movies everyone could watch.

So I feel like Parasite is a movie where of you don't know that there is a twist, you would love it even more. At least you'll be suprised from it. Because as the movie implies: "You expect it to be one thing, but then it turns into another", or something like that.
When watching Parasite, you indeed expect it to be one thing. That being a drama/comedy film. Maybe there even is an argument to be made that it is a character study film. But, what I'm trying to say, is that that's exactly what the movie presents to you in the first hour. You are laughing and finding out who all these characters are. Relationships are formed and the main thing in the movie gets established; that being Parasites. SO YOU THINK!!! Instantly when all those things for established, Parasite says "fuck that" and throws the real Parasite in your face. An incredible plottwist. Absolutely fire. You think you're already there, and then BOOM; that wasn't the real meaning of the film. Parasite really is the best title for this film, like holy shit.
The plottwist reveals that, in the basement of the rich peoples house, there is a secret bunker to hide if there a war. The old maid of the family has hidden her husband there, because people are looking for him. And the way this bunker is portrayed, with all green/blue-ish lights and the narrow hallways, is perfection. There is no other director that can pull that off. Bong Joon-ho easily is the only one who can do that. I am sure!!
But with that twist, the entire tone of the film switches. It's going from a sweet and fun dramedy to a horror and tense drama movie. And it switches so suddle, which makes it more of a surprise and gives it more impact. Before the twist - the poor family has a bright looking future and everything is going well. But after the twist - everything goes wrong for them and basicly have no life left. For some even literally, that is. No life left.

The way this movie ends is also beautiful to me. It is an open ending in a way, which I normally don't like, but that is how life is. As I mentioned earlier, Parasite captures what humans are perfectly. And so, it also does life. Life doesn't end in a satisfying way for everyone. There are always things you wanna do more. Life is also unpredictable - the movie captures unpredictability in the best way possible. Parasite's ending is the most accurate thing they could've chose. We, as an audience, don't know what is going to happen next, which the characters also don't know. You are really following the characters, and not just watching a lame piece of cinema. That makes this film all the more creative. Not choosing for a happy end, not choosing for that satisfying end, and not choosing for what the audience wants; that is how life is and makes Parasite itself feel real. So real that you wanted something better for the main feeling. Bong Joon-ho captures humans like nobody has seen ever before! And that's why he is one of the best directors working right now.

And that is why he won some oscars. And I think no other movie should've won them.
This film won:
Best picture - which is deserved. This is something we have never seen before, something people needed in that era of cinema. Fuck all the other movies that came out that year, also the immaculate masterpieces, like 1917. Parasite was and is the only film that should've won the award. I stand by that.
Best director - hahaha what a suprise. Who would've thought? Lol actually everyone. Right? Because you should. Again, Bong Joon-ho is just one of the best directors of our time, and he deserved this. From the way he films everything, make use of the budget, etc. ; there is no other director I see doing this. Something like Parasite is really hard to pull off!
Best non-English film - well, seen it has best picture, this makes sense, doesn't it.
Original screenplay - I feel like I don't even need to explain this.
I think winning four oscars is great of course and you should be happy with it. But I feel like maybe a performance win would've made it better.

So that's it. A "little" essay review about the best film of all time. I think everyone should give it a go, because most of what I said in this review, doesn't explain how good this actually is. I feel like Parasite is one of the only movies that is made for everyone. Fans of comedy, horror, drama, plottwists are gonna eat this one up. It also doesn't matter if you're older, younger or middle-aged. This will entertain you either way. So definitly take the time to sit down and watch this. If you've never seen this, that is.
I think there is way more to eleborate on. That's why I wanna give a shoutout to a few reviews of other Letterboxd users. They may have said other things, or made it sounds more interesting. So if you are obsessed with this film, and want to hear more about it, check out these:

Lore.films: boxd.it/6d0fTP
noen: boxd.it/4QJxgB
Austin Burke: boxd.it/NnYoz
Marshall: boxd.it/3KBuNz
Jack Denver: boxd.it/4h1PiR


Thank you for reading. Let me know if you wanna see more of these big reviews. <3
1274. Yorum: 
1275. Yorum: I remember when I first saw this movie in the theater. It was my thirteenth birthday, and it was my first foreign film. I was absolutely blown away by it. I was happy it was the first foreign language film to win Best Picture, and it made me want to see more films from other nations. Since then, I have grown into a more avid movie watcher and have been blown away by other films from other countries that I probably wouldn’t have seen if it wasn’t for the impression this film left on me. I haven’t seen it since, and I saw it was leaving Hulu at the end of the week. I decided it was time for a rewatch.
Second viewing tonight was a very different experience. I watched it over three sittings over a twelve hour time period in my living room TV rather than seeing it in one sitting in the theater with top notch sound quality, but even still it is such a great movie. So much went completely over my head the first time around, and there were so many details that completely escaped me and so many questions that I didn’t have on first viewing because I couldn’t completely grasp certain aspects of it.
What are you willing to do to support your family?
How far are you willing to go to support them?
How can being overly reliant on a plan be detrimental for you and your family?
How far can you take the scam before it goes too far?
How can you be sacrificing not only yourself, but the people you love, by taking advantage of this family?
This movie holds up so beautifully. This is a perfect movie in my opinion, and a rare five-star film for me. The script is excellent, with such a well structured story that works perfectly. The acting is amazing, with every actor delivering a fantastic performance and making for memorable characters. There are so many great shots that stand out on their own. But the reason I rate it so highly is because it delivers a variety of different vibes that feel natural. Bong Joon-ho has had a gift of being able to commit to sudden tone alterations used in every film I have seen from him, and he makes it feel so natural. There are moments that are funny and make you laugh, parts that leave you guessing where the story is headed next and leaving you on the edge of your seat, and parts that are depressing and leave you feeling down. 
This is a brilliant movie that’s ALWAYS worth watching.
Grade: A+
1276. Yorum: 10/10
My ninth watch
"Even now, what happened that day doesn't seem real."
Two years since first seeing this film
Admittedly, this feels a bit simpler now that all of its thematic and narrative complexities are so culturally and personally ingrained, but I still find it nearly impossible to think of another movie that reaches the same consistently engrossing, thrilling, and haunting heights. One of those few movies that redefined my brain chemistry. Don't really think life can or will get any better than it was during those first few months of watching and rewatching this film. And even if some of that life-changing feeling has faded, I was glad to find myself enjoying it so thoroughly today and just as awe-struck as usual by the time it wrapped up.
Picked up on a couple things this time around:
- the image of the black, void-like rectangle that leads from the kitchen to the basement brings to mind the phrase "out of sight, out of mind." The blackness of the doorway keeps the Parks from thinking of the world below them.
- Near the end, Ki-woo says he laughs until watching the news, maybe there's some allusion here to how some tend to respond to the issues in the world unless they're close to them? Idk. Good movie.
1277. Yorum: ☆"Aren't we fortunate to be worrying about things like this?"☆
Tune into the Independent Spirit Awards tonight at 10pm!! (That's 7pm for you Left Coasters.) Hosted by the hilarious and wildly talented Melissa Villaseñor!!
Watching one of the all-time greatest to celebrate the anniversary of its historic wins last year -- yeah I know it's not the same date, whatever -- as I don't want to pick a favorite for 2021's show. I spread the love in my votes as you probably could guess, though I do have ones I'm rooting for, but there are hardly any nominees I'll be disappointed in winning. I like film clips and pretty dresses and fun! So duh I watch award shows, of course.
By the way, I'm finally watching my Criterion Collection blu-ray tonight, and the stunning black-and-white version that some of you were lucky enough to catch in theaters last year. It's really something. I don't think I will ever get tired of the miracle that is this utterly perfect movie from Bong Joon-ho.
I still remember Parasite winning its lone Spirit Award last year -- sadly it really wasn't eligible for anything else -- and it was the last bit of convincing momentum that made an Oscar triumph really seem possible. That's the Spirit Awards! The best awards show each year, bar none.
This season there are big hopes for Nomadland and Never Rarely Sometimes Always which could rack up the wins tonight. Tune in to find out! I'll be staying up late and posting comments all night!
And PLEASE become a member in Film Independent! We need all the support we can get.
Part of The Best Narrative Films of 2019.
Part of 2020 Independent Spirit Awards nominees, ranked.
Part of 2020 Academy Awards nominees, ranked.
Part of Bong Joon-ho ranked.
Part of My Subjective List of the Best Narrative Films.
Part of My Subjective List of the Best Films from Every Year I've Seen Them.
1278. Yorum: this is so metaphorical 
since i first watched parasite two weeks ago, it has consumed my thoughts to the extent that i have dreamt about it multiple times, and find that a few hours simply can’t pass without the film entering my brain in some form or another.
the thought which has attracted my attention the most, however, is the element of class struggle and division within the movie. my communist brain eats that shit up! i’ve come to conclude that (in my interpretation anyway), the two opposing poverty-stricken families represent two different extreme ways in which the proletarian can respond to class consciousness and the profound inequality that exists between themselves and the bourgeois family they work for. 
mr kim (particularly after the climax of the film) and his family clearly express class conscious and hostility for the park family, for example with choong-sook’s comment how “they are nice because they are rich”. at the end of the film, mr kim’s resentment of the disparity between his own lifestyle and that of the park’s, as well as the park’s own distain for mr kim and his ‘poor’ smell, ultimately drives mr kim’s rage over the edge as he murders his employers; the ultimate revenge for the humiliation workers such as himself and his family are forced to endure at the hands of their employers.
at the opposite extreme, we have moon-gwang and her partner geun sae. who have nothing but “respect”, and even praise, for the park family, despite the parks having evidently no respect, or even sympathy, for the couple. geun sae remains loyal to mr park even in death as his final words are how he respects mr park so much, even despite mr park being evidently revolted by geun sae.
these layers of meaning are part of the reason why this film is so potent, why it stays with you forever. 
a film can be excellent because it has beautiful cinematography, a brilliant score, haunting acting performances (etc), or a film can be excellent because it has interesting themes, or acts as a striking social commentary. 
in the case of parasite: it is excellent for both reasons.
1279. Yorum: Re-watched this small little underground indie film, it holds on pretty well to a second watch, huh?
1280. Yorum: No words. The cinema was PACKED and I felt like a proud mom.
1281. Yorum: My mum doesn't believe this deserved best picture and that's fine, that's her opinion
On another, unrelated, note - I'm moving out.
1282. Yorum: Act like you own the place.
Bong Joon-ho is a South Korean filmmaker with a very diverse filmography and one who brings a distinct reputation with him when releasing a film, the Bong Hive being the name of his devoted fanbase. His latest film, Parasite, gets a long awaited release in the UK and going into this one blind is one of the best decisions you could ever make.
All unemployed, Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho) and his family take peculiar interest in the wealthy and glamorous Parks, as they ingratiate themselves into their lives and get entangled in an unexpected incident.
Parasite is an absolute triumph from Bong Joon-ho, his film building and building to a crescendo that I didn't see coming at all. It's a brilliantly written film, the humour running through the social commentary of class separation often genius throughout and the dark humour that takes things to the next level utterly breathtaking. There's a real intricacy to the screenplay, co-written by Bong and Han Jin-won, taking time to introduce us to the characters in such a way it makes what unfolds even more hard-hitting.
It isn't just the screenplay that deserves special mention for its intricacy, the production design on Parasite providing a stunning backdrop for the narrative to unfold. The time and effort that goes into making something as wonderful as the Park's family home always amazes me and it pays off majorly with its maze-like features almost serving as a character itself. Hong Kyung-pyo's sweeping cinematography through the narrow corridors and lower-class neighbourhood where the Kims actually live is beautifully neat and Yang Jin-mo's score accompanies the film with a wonderfully symphonic prowess.
Coming to the performances, Parasite is full of great performances from a cast who have been nothing but infectious this awards season. It's very much an ensemble piece, each of them getting their moment to showcase their talents but the stand-outs for me were Song Kang-ho, Park So-dam and Cho Yeo-jeong.
Parasite is Bong Joon-ho's magnum opus and has set an incredibly high bar for the rest of 2020 in film to live up to. I haven't been as fully engrossed in a film as I was watching this masterpiece unfold and I can only imagine it's going to get better with each viewing.
1283. Yorum: 2019 Ranked: boxd.it/2fcdA
I'm going to keep this as vague as possible so everyone can have the same experience I did. This trailer came on in the theater and I immediately left the theater because I was determined to finally see a movie without knowing anything beforehand.
What a smart move that was.
The most I'll say about this movie is that the soundtrack is amazing. That's all you're getting. Watch the damn movie when it comes out you won't regret it.
🔜A Dog's Journey
1284. Yorum: Where the fuck do South Koreans get their ideas from? This film has way too many layers, ambiguous as hell, wickedly hilarious, unsettling just thinking about it. The creepiest shot of the year. Check. The most thought provoking shot of the year. Check.Bong Joon- Ho, you beauty,take a bow! My second favourite film of the year!
1285. Yorum: Crazy rollercoaster ride of emotions, I loved every second. The way every scene flowed into the next had me on edge the whole time. Every single frame had an intention behind it, telling us something new about the story. I absolutely adore the cinematography and how it highlights the juxtaposition of the mansion & the Kim’s apartment. So much attention to detail that I don’t think I fully grasped everything in the first watch. 
Definitely going to watch this again, and again, and again.
1286. Yorum: As some people would say “Another Bong Hit!”
I’m surprised in how much I’ve forgotten since the first time I’ve watched this beautiful film. This rewatch was very much needed
This film is and will always be a masterpiece.
1287. Yorum: 
1288. Yorum: Only saw this film once in theaters when it first came out and loved it then but it was in the middle of a year that was riddled with amazing cinema and while I was rooting for it at the Oscars I never really absorbed how truly great a work of cinema it was. 
Watching years removed from the Bong hype, it’s really that amazing and a bowl of Ram-Don. 
Every performance, every calculated whip pan, every line of dialogue is as perfectly placed in the construct of the film you worry if there’s a false beat the film will crumble under the weight of it’s own craft but Bong somehow balances all these spinning plates effortlessly its mind-blowing, especially how he can seamlessly jump tones from comedy to drama to horror and back again with ease. 
I used to think my favorite film of his was THE HOST but this may now be the one.
1289. Yorum: This movie is just too fucking good. I’m glad to say that it’s even better the second time around. The way each member of the lower class family slowly but surely creeps their way into becoming parasites of the higher class family is so well done. The dramatic music, the outstanding acting and directing, it’s all so beautifully well done. The climax of the film is also eerily magnificent. I love how you never know where this movie is going to go next. The way it mixes comedy, drama, and honestly horror is very amazing. If you’re looking to delve more into foreign movies, this is the one to start with. Also, the ending is so moving and so beautiful. I’m so glad this won best picture AND palme d’or. IT DESERVES THE HYPE!!!
1290. Yorum: Questo film rappresenta un esempio di come l’incrocio di più generi possa dare origine a un prodotto sorprendente e coinvolgente. Ci puoi trovare la commedia, il dramma sociale, il thriller (è un’ispirazione il genere delle home invasions) con tanto di sfumature horror.
C’è chi sta in alto e chi sta in basso; chi sta in basso cerca di elevare la propria posizione (a volte con mezzi meschini) non sapendo che, da sempre, ci sono individui che stanno peggio di loro. 
Il film di Bong parla di ambizioni, meschinità e ipocrisie (tutti recitano una “parte”, un “ruolo” pur di raggiungere il proprio scopo. Ognuno è diverso da quello che appare).
Racconta poi di un senso di rivalsa da parte delle classi inferiori, agognanti il benessere e la fortuna (simboleggiata da una pietra che diventa portatrice sia di buone venture che di sventure).
Alla fine, tutti i personaggi del film sono infatti parassiti (la famiglia Kim, con un piano machievellico, si introduce nella residenza dei Park, che a loro volta drenano l’energia di chi sta al loro servizio) pronti a fagocitare gli altri per poter vivere. La lotta di classe è dunque una lotta per la sopravvivenza, combattuta da individui che fanno parte di una gerarchia rigida e soffocante, anzi una vera e propria catena alimentare da cui è difficile uscire.
1291. Yorum: Even in a year particularly strong for movies, where so many skilled filmmakers stepped up and crafted masterful entries in their careers, in every way, Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite was deserving of each accolade it won. Although it may not even be his best film to date, it exhibits his usual talents and continuously proves his expertise when it comes to cinema, once again both pushing and defying boundaries of filmmaking and storytelling in that way that make Joon-Ho’s movies such a treat.
What’s particularly great about Parasite is the fact it works on multiple levels, functioning as both a relevant depiction of the futility associated with our class-based societies, as well as simply a compelling thriller with a surprisingly heartfelt core. This is always a strength when it comes to Joon-Ho’s features – as proved with both Snowpiercer (2013) and Memories of Murder (2003) he knows perfectly how to craft gripping, intriguing stories that are simultaneously packed with thematic substance, both challenging and enhancing the audiences pre-existing viewpoints.
For instance, on the surface, Parasite is posed as a unique exercise in suspense, employing classic methods to effectively fashion tension, and utilizing its concept to the fullest when it comes to its primary genre. Joon-Ho, clearly, is well-versed when it comes to thrillers, and although his tactics sometimes feel fairly familiar, evidently drawing inspiration from the greats, one cannot deny their sheer effectiveness, especially when compared to other pictures of the same genre of recent years.
Yet, simultaneously, Joon-Ho works to quietly integrate the theme, lacing each scene with careful subtext and silently building towards a final, climatic moment that ties the film up perfectly. Perhaps this can best be seen during the extremely effective table sequence, where the Kims are forced to hide upon the Park's return home. Initially, this comes off as nothing more than a simplistic suspense scene, merely designed to draw the viewer to the edge of their seat. But upon a later inspection, it’s hard not to notice the Parks once again commenting on the distinct smell of poverty in the background, noting Ki-Taek's dirty stench. It’s subdued, recurring moments like this that make that gut-wrenching, brutal finale so effective. Joon-Ho is almost always building towards that climatic moment, simultaneously crafting entertaining scenes whilst in the backdrop working to develop a theme. He’ll introduce something simple and seemingly insignificant, then right before your eyes, will make it marvelously come full circle. Again, consistently, he’s always been great at this, but here, particularly, his ability to both entertain and thought-provoke is extremely impressive.
It seems here he’s also consistently good at unnerving you, having the story stick with the viewer not purely because it’s filled with powerful motifs and well-rounded characters (which are both present) but because it’s rather non-conforming. The pacing is notable in the sense it’s awkward and unique, not necessarily always flowing but moving at a variety of distinct speeds, sometimes plowing forward while at other points suddenly coming to a complete halt. There are plenty of rapid tonal shifts as well, which are almost tactically positioned to catch as off guard as possible. This combination makes for an extremely unique experience, where you can never fully get comfortable while watching the film. Of course, given the subject matter and genre, this is entirely intentional, or at least I’m presuming it is. Nevertheless, either way, I like it – oftentimes, a thriller will mostly shoot for mere tension, while Parasite also aspires to jar you. It’s an interesting approach that I’d love to see more, as again, it creates for a particularly memorable experience.
Finally, I must emphasize Joon-Ho’s ability to world-build, and effectively craft a universe that feels three-dimensional for the story at hand. Even here, despite Parasite’s apparent lack of scale, Joon-Ho painstakingly constructs everything, crafting an immersive experience through his attention to detail. This is not only done through the gorgeous, rich, textured cinematography, where you can smell and feel each distinct environment, but extremely sturdy directing and writing as well. This can best be seen in the roles: in a brilliant opening, the Kims are mostly established collectively – we can easily define them as a group, but we do not yet necessarily know them as individuals. Granted, this quickly changes, with Joon-Ho cleverly developing each persona individually, despite the plethora of characters. He does it discreetly, oftentimes very subtly hinting at the particular strengths and weaknesses of each character, whilst (similarly to his handling of theme) ensuring the plot keeps on moving. Look me in the eyes and tell me, for instance, that Ki-Jung and Ki-Woo don’t feel wildly different by the film's conclusion, whereas in the start they seem fairly alike. Arguably, there aren’t a ton of pinnacle “character moments,” where something revolutionary is revealed about a figure of the story – instead, Joon-Ho works with the details, building up the story's key players in a methodical and quiet though effective way.
It’s instances like this that consistently demonstrate the skill of Parasite, and showcase just how ingenious Joon-Ho is. Although this isn’t even my favorite film from him, I can not deny its effectiveness, as well as the skill present behind the camera. Simply put, this is a perfect film on all fronts, with not a flaw in sight.
1292. Yorum: Hell, if I had all this money I'd be nice too
Bong Joon-ho Filmography
Feature Film Number: 7
Year: 2019
Age: 50 (time of release)
Source: Blu Ray (Artificial Eye)
It's all so metaphorical
Parasite is the 2019 South Korean black comedy thriller co-written and directed by Bong Joon-ho. The film stars Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong and Choi Woo-shik in a story of a poverty stricken family who scheme their way into employment with a rich family with tragic consequences.
Social inequality has become a popular subject matter in foreign cinema of late. Staircases and smells are just some of the ways Bong Joon-ho divides social class with the Kim family at one point actually swimming in their own sewage waste. Even something as simple as the experiences of rain is explored as the rich bask at its beauty but the poor suffer its unforgiving devastation.
Do you know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all
Bong Joon-ho earns the accolades. His talent, hard work and passion is evident in every scene and spoken dialogue. He has thrust Korean cinema into the limelight and offers a glimpse into a world that so many people overlook. The cinematography is beautiful with a score to match just as the acting and screenplay are exceptional providing a tense and exhausting experience with social satire grounded by the outstanding performances.
5 Star Films List
Bong Joon-ho Filmography List
Asain Cinema List
1293. Yorum: reminds me of plankton argh argh argh!
1294. Yorum: On this third viewing, I actually shouted "yeah!" when Kim got up and stabbed Park in the chest. I absolutely felt it, that instant white hot rage as the symbol of everything wrong in the world stands there, completely unmoved by your family tragedy. The moment is both cathartic and deeply tragic, symbolizing the plight of the majority of us under capitalism and the way our righteous pain and anger, when it does finally boil over, rarely begets actual change.
When the credits rolled, my wife sighed and smiled, and I said, yep, that is definitely a masterpiece. I deeply admired it the first time, then loved it the second, and now over one year later, I'm sure that it's one of those wildly rare instances where a great director makes their best film almost three decades into their career. I'm so glad I picked it upon Criterion bluray - can't wait to dive into the extras, especially an interview with Bong and Park Chan-wook.
Bong Joon-ho movies ranked
1295. Yorum: So, an official poster for the new Black and White re-release of "Parasite" got an awesome poster that shows the original poster from a different perspective. Check it out here. Let me know what you think about it in the comments.
1296. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.“
I cannot say that I have heard a bad thing about this movie. However, the universal acclaim is the only knowledge I had about this film. Going into it, I knew absolutely nothing about it. I wanted it to be that way because I wanted to watch it blind. What is this movie about and why has it garnered so much attention. To say the least, it is one hell of a ride...
Parasite is one of the most genuinely intense movies I have ever seen period. It starts off with a poor family trying to get out of poverty. The premise sounds simple and basic, but the plot gets more and more complicated, but it has much more depth and conflict. There are so many layers in this film about family, about poverty, about greed and about social equality. The Kim family is definitely not the most pleasant group of protagonists, but they have relatable motivations. Their lives are completely miserable and they want to be able to live better lives. They are fantastic characters and despite their flaws and acts of villainy, they are easy to root for because of their sympathetic qualities. They also have terrific chemistry with each other. If someone told me that they were a real family, I would not be surprised. The housekeeper has a surprisingly sympathetic story that I won’t spoil. The Park family is the rich family and it is easy to see them as a lot less sympathetic than the Kim family, but they have their sympathetic traits too, especially the son. All of the performances are terrific in this film from the line delivery to their facial expressions. These people felt real, not like actors. The story is amazing. It starts out interesting with its premise and then gets much more intense when the family moves into a higher position. There are twists and turns that I do not expect and the climax is shocking. Every beat in this film builds the tension further and further. The script blends drama and comedy perfectly. It is a very funny film, but it shines with the dramatic elements. The suspense is some of the best I have seen in a film and every step of the way I was clenching my seat to what would happen next. The ending hit really hard as well. The writing is just tremendous here. However, if you watch this movie, PAY ATTENTION to every single minute of the film. Not only is the film Korean so there will be subtitles, the movie is fast-paced and to fully understand what is going on, it is crucial to pay extra attention to the film to get more details. I got about halfway the first time watching that I had stop not because I didn’t like the movie, but because I did not know what in the world was going on. However, after watching again tonight, I was able to figure out what the family was doing and what their goals are. If I watch it again, I might be able to find some details that I missed. This movie demands your attention and it never lets up for even a minute. It is exhausting, but not in a bad way, but in the “holy s**t what is about to happen,” kind of way. It goes without saying, but technical aspects are marvelous. The cinematography is so breathtaking. There are so many gorgeous shots in this film that I lost count. But what makes the cinematography so great is that this feels like a real event taking place and not just a typical drama movie where people are pretending. There is a flood scene that illustrates this perfectly. It feels authentic. The musical score is phenomenal as well. It builds the tension perfectly while sounding really catchy at the same time.
I cannot really go into Parasite much further without going into spoilers. This movie is legendary and it won best picture at the Academy Awards for a reason. However, the best way to experience Parasite is to go in knowing as little as possible about the film. I have seen some people say that they refuse to watch this film because it has subtitles. Don’t be that person. Watch this movie as soon as you can. It is on Hulu and everyone should watch this movie at least once in their life because it is that damn good. It may even take more than one watch because of how much attention to detail this movie has, but it is worth it.
1297. Yorum: i don’t know if choosing on a whim to watch this movie at 2am while high on tylenol pm was a good idea or a bad one, but since i have nothing to compare it to and i had a really good time i’m going to call these ideal conditions.
(i also have A LOT of thoughts and no time to make them make sense outside of my head at the current moment, so i’m going to wait until i rewatch this to share them in an actual review.)
1298. Yorum: I’ve seen all Oscar nominated movies now and this just blows them all away 🤙🏻
1299. Yorum: Part of My Silk Road Challenge (Korea)
This dark comedy thriller from writer-director Bong Joon-ho has shot right to the top of my favorites by this extremely inventive filmmaker. It has a wonderful balance of humor and hustle, with four lower-class family members, the Kims, helping one another leech off a wealthy family of four, The Parks.
Stand-out acting by all involved is led by Song Kang-ho as out-of-work driver Kim Ki-taek, with Jang Hye-jin as his wife, the former hammer-throwing champion Kim Chung-sook. Their daughter Ki-jeong (Park So-dam) is skilled in graphic arts, and son Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) is good at English, despite no university education. Folding pizza boxes in their semi-basement apartment is their only source of income, and they aren't very good at it.
However, good fortune comes to the Kims when Ki-woo's buddy Min-hyuk (Park Seo-joon) arranges for him to tutor affluent high school student Park Da-hye (Jung Ji-so). Her mother Choi Yeon-gyo (Cho Yeo-jeong) is a rather simple woman and her father Park Dong-ik (Lee Sun-kyun) is very busy as the CEO of a high-tech company. Soon Ki-woo sets it up for Ki-jeong to provide "art therapy" to the girl's little brother, Park Da-song (Jung Hyun-joon). And not long after that, sis comes up with a way to get their dad a job as the Parks' chauffeur.
The only barrier to taking all the Parks have to give is long-time housekeeper Gook Moon-gwang (Lee Jung-eun). But there's a way to move her out and replace her with mom, too, so the entire Kim family is employed. Of course, we know trouble is coming just as surely as kimchee at a Korean feast. And Bong provides a twist in the middle that nobody will see coming, as well as a climax to take our very breath away.
The film won the Palme d'Or at Cannes by unanimous vote of the judges. It has been nominated to the Academy Awards for Best International Feature Film, and the box office has already rewarded the $11 million production with $121.8 million in revenues worldwide... Bong's most lucrative film to date. I'm not going so far as many Letterboxd colleagues to declare this a five-star masterpiece, but it is a superb film you will want to see before the Awards season hits its stride... this is sure to win a lot of hardware between now and the Oscars.
1300. Yorum: 
1301. Yorum: ki woo: "All you'll need to do, is walk up the stairs"
⠀
⠀
me: im not crying ur crying
1302. Yorum: Do you ever scroll through other Letterbox reviews because you don't know what to say.
I really don't know what to say.
Funny. Heartbreaking. Cringe-inducing. And that ending. Oof. OOF.
1303. Yorum: i’m obsessed
1304. Yorum: [Jesse Pinkman's voice:] You ain’t seeing the basement, bitch!
1305. Yorum: Honestly I haven't gotten so quickly obsessed with a film in so long. I know I'm a pretty rabid rewatcher, but this is probably the quickest I've come back to a film.
So darkly clever and intense, it's certainly an experience that I would recommend to everyone. It's just so fucking good.
1306. Yorum: GET IN THE HOUSE PEACHES WE GONNA FUCK UP THEM RICH LIVES
1307. Yorum: Review In A Nutshell:
It is love that allows us to endure through the hardships, giving us a sense of purpose and fulfilment in the clamour for success. When that significant part is stripped from us, our sense of tolerance, reasoning and emotional rigour begins to decay, or in the case of Parasite, erupts. Bong Joon-Ho serves us a family drama that satirises the class divisions of his native country, and in the process allowing us to bear witness to that particular eruption develop and unfold as logic, empathy, and composure begins to disintegrate. It is as shocking as anything that he has previously offered, and arguably as entertaining.
1308. Yorum: There are a lot of things that won't surprise Bong fans about this latest film: the God-level staging and camerawork, the crackerjack pace, even the fact that the narrative is full of surprises. But after SNOWPIERCER and OKJA, two things really struck me: the production design and acting. Both take a turn away from the excesses in those films, and in an unshowy way help ground the film in a way that I wouldn't have expected. What's maintained from SNOWPIERCER and OKJA is the social critique, which reaches, somehow, new levels of scathingness, without ever overpowering the actual story of the film. Bilge Ebiri has claimed this is Bong's greatest film; it may not be as pure of an adrenaline rush as THE HOST, or as immediately haunting as MEMORIES OF MURDER, but I'm not sure he's wrong.
1309. Yorum: what did they do wrong?
1310. Yorum: Madem o kadar akıllısınız okuyup adam olsanıza orrrospu cocuklari
1311. Yorum: I wish letterboxd had groupchats
1312. Yorum: BLACK AND WHITE VERSION
Still extraordinary in B&W (though I prefer the color version)!
After seeing Parasite more than five times I still loudly laugh (not something I do easily) at its wickedly dark humor. The peaches and hot sauce scene gets me every time. Whatever wins Best Picture this Sunday, April 25th is no match for Bong Joon-Ho's modern masterpiece (yes I used the word and it's warranted).
1313. Yorum: 
1314. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho is from a super privileged family. He's an upper class in South Korea.
Moreover, Parasite and almost all of his filmography are made and distributed by CJ (in South Korea vertical integration/monopoly in the media industry is allowed), a chaebol that basically owns the entire media industry in South Korea. In addition to the media industry, CJ also plays a huge part in the retail and food industry. CJ is a part of the larger Samsung family -- Samsung, Shinsegae, CJ, and Hansol --. They play a huge part in electronics, shipbuilding, construction, advertising, finance, insurance, and retail, all of which rank some of the largest in the respective industry in the world.
So if Parasite was made in North America, it is like it was made and distributed by Walmart + Amazon + Coca Cola + Disney + Apple + Google + much more, which totally aligns with the film's politics.
1315. Yorum: ...And I've finally reached that stage where a film has so many reviews, I have to question the point of logging it. Rather than any real insight, I will simple state that as fantastic as the mansion set was, there are shots of the slums that are so breathtakingly beautiful that I actually resented how much time we spent with the haves. Easily the best picture of 2019, and in my top five Bong Joon-ho films... but just barely.
So in handing the foreign language world an olive branch... to presumably shut them up for another 92 years, do we now have to recognize previous decisions like 1963 best picture Tom Jones - in a year that produced 8 1/2 - as rational?
1316. Yorum: Brought a friend of mine along to this and just changed her life.
1317. Yorum: Really enjoyed this, but am suspicious of its 99% Rotten Tomatoes score.
1318. Yorum: No plan.
Found myself nearly wailing by the end of this film. Haven't cried so hard since maybe SHIRKERS or FIRST REFORMED. I was heaving, this was far too much for me. I won't spoil anything, but please go watch this immediately. It's a masterpiece, top to bottom.
Don't let a single one of these neoliberal ideologues convince you that we are simply having a collective "eat the rich" moment. It's not going to go away. We are all realizing that we work for nothing, our backs fucking hurt, and we're so tired. To call it a "moment" is to trivialize the plight of the mass impoverished, and to brush a global class awakening off as some sort-of fad. If you scrolled through film twitter or listened to most of the podcasts discussing PARASITE, you'd think we all just discovered Poor People, like, yesterday. This is just another entry into the celluloid of the dispossessed, a radical call to awareness and a cautionary tale about being a traitor to your own class. The want to have is not perverse in and of itself, but it is reflective of perverse society that is far beyond saving, built upon the heads of the poor.
Poverty isn't liminal; it's where you'll die.
1319. Yorum: #Parasite EXCEEDED the HYPE it had built up over the last couple of months. Thought provoking, entertaining, original, clever, dynamic, extravagant, touching, hilarious, disturbing, depressing, memorable, and overall A MASTERS WORK 🔥
1320. Yorum: Director Bong Joon- ho second Best film runner up to Memories of Murder
1321. Yorum: Really great movie all around, might be a 5 upon rewatch.
Go in blind.
1322. Yorum: I can’t wait to watch this again (soon)
1323. Yorum: Holy shit what a wonderful WONDERFUL film 
***
good double bill w/‘Us’
1324. Yorum: tenia las expectativas pero joder
1325. Yorum: Parasite (2019) is a movie we saw in theatres as soon as it was released. The storyline involves a family down on their luck and funds when they find an opportunity they can't pass up. They've been asked to house sit for a wealthy family while on vacation and have strict rules on how they need to take care of the house. Each member of the family lies to the wealthy family and takes a role within their household. When the family comes back from their trip early, the working family needs to work really hard to hide their scheming ways; unfortunately for them, there may be secrets going on all around them they could have never anticipated. 
This movie is directed by Bong Joon Ho (Snowpiercer) and stars Kang-ho Song (The Host), Sun-kyun Lee (A Hard Day), Yeo-jeong Cho (The Concubine) and Woo-sik Choi (Train to Busan). 
The storyline for this is awesome and very well paced. The character development and interactions throughout the film was perfect and the cast had great chemistry. The body language and dialogue throughout the film is creepy and well executed and the sudden intensity at the end of the movie was awesome. This is just a well done film that is very compelling, smart, entertaining and worth your time. This is a masterpiece that is easy to score a 10/10 and recommending for your collection.
1326. Yorum: 
1327. Yorum: I finally watched this. I have officially been successfully dodging spoilers since this released back in 2019. 
You guys didn’t lie, it is a remarkable film, with some incredibly important themes veiled in a gorgeous, sinister and satirical piece of storytelling.
The middle of the film sort of lost me throughout, hence why my rating isn’t higher. The first and last 45 minutes were immaculate tho. The entire structure of the rise and fall of “the plan” was really well built. The pacing itself felt very steady and it kept my interest.
I admire how well written the characters motives were. The moral standpoints of the film were tied to classism and prejudice, forcing me as the viewer to confront those themes. 
I thought all the actors did really well. The dry humor worked like a charm.
I get why this is so beloved!
1328. Yorum: when the movie is that great the only words that are coming out your mouth are wow and Fantastic
1329. Yorum: Patrick Bateman is losing his fucking mind over that business card
1330. Yorum: i could listen to “Jessica from Chicago” on repeat like a song on spotify.
can’t believe i watched this for the first time almost a year ago. ugh such a life changing movie and perfect filmmaking.
1331. Yorum: "they’re rich but still nice
they’re nice because they’re rich."
i just love this movie so much, its literally perfection!!! i will never get tired of watching it
1332. Yorum: I don’t have much more to say about this than my previous review on my first account, but I will say I actually enjoyed this quite a bit more than the first time around. I may even decide to give it the full five stars the next time I see it.
I personally picked this for our family movie night as we watched it The Host a couple weeks back and I thought my dad might actually enjoy this one. He said “it sure was interesting”, lol. My younger brother hated it and said it was “the most embarrassing movie he’d ever seen” in the sense of secondhand embarrassment from watching the family.
Probably one of my favorites at this point. Memories of Murder is next.
EDIT: here's that review
1333. Yorum: o minhyuck quando ficou sabendo de tudo o que aconteceu com a familia depois que ele indicou o kiwoo: carai pq q eu fui inventar-
1334. Yorum: • Review in English below

PT:
não sei por onde começar a falar sobre essa obra, até pq provavelmente mesmo eu já tendo visto 3 vezes eu ainda deixei passar algo, e por ser um filme tão complexo em seus aspectos técnicos, se torna tão prazeroso ver denovo para pegarmos coisas que as vezes não vimos.
parasita brinca demais com o espectador, e graças ao roteiro que sempre dá um jeito de fugir de convenções do gênero, sendo realmente difícil de classificar parasita, pq ele transita até mesmo na comédia, por assim dizer... mas mesmo vc achando que vai encontrar tal coisa, o filme se torna totalmente imprevisível, te levando para outro caminho, subvertendo e migrando para outro gênero.
além de ter essa divisão de classes, não só presente no roteiro, mas sim na montagem e fotografia... reparem no ambiente, sempre que estão na mansão (família park) a cinematografia foca em nos mostrar o mínimo do mínimo do vazio, seja uma mesa, ou uma área de lazer, tornando tudo vasto não só aos nossos olhos, como dos personagens tbm, já quando é ao contrário (família kim) parece ser milimetricamente calculado, sendo um espaço mais fechado, uma sensação de desconforto pela “pequenez“ do ambiente.
você pode até pensar que trata-se apenas de uma história clichê sobre desigualdade de classes, porém é muito mais do que isso, se tratando da forma como uma parasita precisa de um hospedeiro para se manter de pé, e meio que para as duas famílias viverem em harmonia, uma precisa ser dependente da outra, e aí é que mora a questão, quem de fato é o parasita?

enfim, parasita é uma aula de como fazer cinema. Com um roteiro sagaz, que não traz apenas uma vasta gama de gêneros, mas tbm importantes mensagens sobre as malezas da Coreia, esnobismo social...
ASSISTAM E SE SURPREENDAM.
EN:
I don't know where to start talking about this work, because probably even though I've already seen it 3 times I still missed something, and because it's such a complex film in its technical aspects, it becomes so pleasant to see it again to get things that people times we didn't see.
parasite plays a lot with the viewer, and thanks to the script that always manages to escape the conventions of the genre, and it's really hard to classify parasite, because it transits even in comedy, so to speak... but even if you think that encounter such a thing, the film becomes totally unpredictable, taking you down another path, subverting and migrating to another genre.
in addition to having this division of classes, not only present in the script, but also in the editing and photography... look at the environment, whenever you are in the mansion (Park family) the cinematography focuses on showing us the minimum of the minimum of the void, be it a table, or a leisure area, making everything vast not only to our eyes, but also to the characters' eyes, since when it's the other way around (kim family) it seems to be millimetrically calculated, being a more closed space, a feeling of discomfort due to the "smallness" “ from the environment.
you might think it's just a cliché story about class inequality, but it's much more than that, but when it comes to the way a parasite needs a host to stay on its feet, and sort of for both. families live in harmony, one needs to be dependent on the other, and therein lies the question, who really is the parasite?
anyway, parasite is a class on how to make cinema. witty script, which not only brings a wide range of genres, but also important messages about the evils of Korea, social snobbery...
WATCH AND BE SURPRISED.
1335. Yorum: This is the third time I watched this movie. The first two times were in the theater. I've had a couple years between viewings, and I still feel this is one of the greatest films ever made. The acting, directing, writing, set design, and lighting are all pitch perfect.
No other film swings so hard from comedy to tragedy and still works. The metaphor of the upper class and lower class is spot on and actualized with the poor drowning on the low ground as the rich bask in the sun on the high ground. And that's not to mention the basement...
1336. Yorum: “what if my driver and yayas do the same to my family?” 
- my ex immediately after watching PARASITE
1337. Yorum: Im sick as fuck for waiting this long but def worth tha hype. What is up with morse code?!?! literally 3 movies ive watched in 24 hours all talked about morse code. I love it tho. Im so sad the daughter... you know... anyways I loved the monologue at the end. I said out loud HOLY FUCK right when it ended and I hardly do that
1338. Yorum: The U.K appeared to be late to the Parasite party, especially where I live. My local cinema didn’t show it until after it crushed the Oscar’s, so going in to watch it for the first time earlier this year, which feels like a life time ago, my expectations were through the roof. I would honestly say my expectations were unfairly high as I took my seat in a surprisingly packed screening room, and still, this film knocked my socks off. It was phenomenal. The direction, the editing, the twist and turns, all of it, mwah, biggest chef’s kiss.
Rewatching it today my expectations were somehow higher than before. I was planning to just watch the film on a not-so-legal streaming site but I figured this deserves to be seen properly, so I forked out £10 because I was so excited to truly indulge myself in this iconic picture. While watching I kept an eye out for all the little things that truly make or break a movie, rewinded and replayed certain sequences to break them down further - to hopefully appreciate them further. And under the microscope...This. Film. Did. Not. Disappoint.
Seriously, Parasite, you’re a masterpiece sweetie, and don’t you know it. And don’t we know it. Big 10/10.
Around the World (🇰🇷)
1339. Yorum: 
1340. Yorum: parasite added to the peach cinematic universe alongside cmbyn and james and the giant peach
1341. Yorum: Finally I saw Parasite and I must agree that the Oscar was pretty much deserved.
I really liked the funny first half, but what really impressed me was the sudden change of atmosphere in the second half and the way how the lifes of poor and rich people are put in contrast, as well as how the tension was built up. It literally gave me goosebumps.
1342. Yorum: the haunting of hill house
1343. Yorum: i’ve never been this happy with the academy
1344. Yorum: Not ONLY the best film of 2019, but one of the best films of the entire decade.
Though the Oscars don’t really mean much in all honesty, Parasite winning was incredibly important...and it also made my mom want to rent and watch it tonight.  This was my first viewing of this not in a theatre.  The theatre experience is of course far superior, but I’m glad to report my mom still really liked it (thankfully continuing the streak of everyone that I show it to loving it).
viewing #6
1345. Yorum: I've regularly seen Bong Joon-ho's work described as "not subtle," as if it's a bad thing. Part of what's so consistently brilliant about Bong's work an unrelenting pursuit of an idea.
Parasite is no different than The Host or Snowpiercer or Okja or any other Bong film. He's cynical about society, and likely even his audience. They're movies trying to strangle you by the neck with their point, because it knows you won't pay attention otherwise. It's a story screaming at the viewer about its themes and values, because it wants to make sure you come away knowing what it was trying to say, without ambiguity.
They are, often, essays about the state of the world dressed up with stories and characters because, these days, it's the best way to make a point to a larger audience. You have to trick them. Whether they decide to do anything with that information is out of Bong's hands, but when the credits roll, there will be no doubt about what he wanted you to feel.
What a cool family.
1346. Yorum: Ok.
1347. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho is a fucking mastermind. So far he never fails to dazzle me with his tremendous cinematography.
This was extremely engaging and tantalizing. The pacing of the movie was perfect, keeping me interested the entire run time. I definitely see why this is so praised. I look forward to experiencing more of Bong Joon-Hos`s incredible work and ability to tell a story.
1348. Yorum: i know film is subjective but this just has to objectively be the best film of the year !
1349. Yorum: time to get #bonghive tattooed in my eye sockets
1350. Yorum: Phenomenal.
1351. Yorum: Que una película tan macabra, tan diabólica y tan crítica logre ser una mezcla perfecta de géneros donde la comedia más amarga destaca por encima del resto, es un gozo.
En cierto modo, me encuentro ante mi 'The Death of Stalin' de este año. Que nunca se nos escape un año sin una exquisita dosis de mala uva.
Al fin tengo una película favorita de Bong Joon-ho.
1352. Yorum: 
1353. Yorum: As a depiction of ordinary people who fall into an unavoidable havoc, a comedy without one dimensional jackasses, a tragedy without villains, all leading to a violent entangle and a plunge down the stairs. A proudly unsubtle satire !
1354. Yorum: “Not “rich, but still nice”, nice because she’s rich.”
1355. Yorum: I'm speechless.
the last twenty minutes will blow you away.
1356. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is absolutely, almost immeasurably incredible. The most spectacular quality about it is it's ability to completely defy any Western ideals of genre, opting to forge its own identity with fury and marvelous execution. In some respects it's a razor-sharp comedy that laughs in the face of imposter syndrome, and on the other hand it's this beautiful image of a family fighting tooth and nail to make the best life for one another. Parasite taps into what I believe is a universal ideal; that of making something of yourself in life, in order to repay what your family has given you. Parasite is the most poignant example of this that I've seen, with the film's climax offering such an emotional gut punch that I was genuinely speechless afterwards. Right as I thought the film was wrapped up after it's explosive denouement, I was hit with the father and son's messages to one another that makes it a masterpiece in my opinion; this family serves as a parallel to every family, both biological and otherwise, building each other up and striving to their best, especially when everything seems completely unsalvageable. I was already totally on board with the film, but it was the knockout of a final sequence that solidified this as my favourite film of the year so far.
What's more amazing is the fact that this beautiful message about familial bonds within difficult societal structures is nested within one of the darkest, funniest films I've seen in recent memory. joon-Ho's ability to walk this line at such a perfect pitch is something that never comes across as showy, and it's so satisfying to be whipped about from hilarity, to fear, to tension, to sadness. Similarly to Cuaron's Roma, the seemingly objective presentation of every new emotional beat in the film does wonders to make the narrative feel both lived-in and universal. It's a master stroke of film-making that I was laughing during the major sabotage montage, and feeling deeply upset when the human impact is portrayed a moment later.
It was so great watching Parasite in a theatre of people, all equally enraptured with and on board with Bong joon-ho's vision of insane, hyper-real humanism. Every joke landed immensely, and so too did every moment of stark realism. I can't wait to watch this again, because even though everything is seemingly laid out on the table, I feel there's so much more to be unveiled and enjoyed when viewing this again. Absolutely my favourite film of 2019 so far, anyone on the fence is deeply encouraged to seek it out.
1357. Yorum: I didn’t know much about parasite except for the hype it’s been getting and that I’ve seen two of bong jong-ho’s movies (at that point I thought only okja was his best but boy was i wrong), I made the decision of going in blind to watch the sneak when it released here on the weekend impulsively bought the ticket which turns out to be the best decision I’ve made like fuck I cannot elaborate how much this movie fucks!!! the characters did things that were terrible and messed up but at the time pulled a bunch of (sometimes) awkward yet hilarious lines! Do yourselves a favor and go watch this movie if it has already release in your cinema I promise it won’t disappoint.
1358. Yorum: absolutely fucking bonkers. everything you've heard is true, and more. one of my favorite screenplays in a long, long time. bong isn't fucking around this time. but then again, was he ever?
1359. Yorum: ruin the rich from the inside will always be one of my favorites genres.
kinda funny how much fun i was having before that damn doorbell rang, suddenly i was NOT having a good time.
1360. Yorum: Remember when people were upset that this won best picture? What a wild ass take that was. 
That fucking rainstorm sequence/10
Favorites
1361. Yorum: WHAT?!
1362. Yorum: Rewatched this last night with a friend. Altough he thought he had seen it before, he didn't remember any of it halfway trough. So that plottwist hit him and blew his mind.
This film is so brilliant I can talk about it all day. With a rewatch you already know the outcome but can look at other, on first look, minor details but they are so nuanced and perfectly placed it builds and builds perfectly to the final finale.
The amount of metaphors in this film is stunning. From the satire on Kim Jong-un and the news to the difference in height of the residents of the families to the different perspective on the rainfall. It's all so brilliantly done that I was applauding twice during the film.
The usage of the montages is so great. The way Bong Joon-ho tells a major event of the story in 2 minutes is mindblowing. He gives pieces of information in such a fluent way. With a perfect score to dramatise the scene makes it the cherry on top. The score also uses horror influences that fit the film perfectly.
A perfect cast, screenplay, production design, direction, cinematography and critical note on society in both ways makes this one of the best if not the best film of last decade.
1363. Yorum: I scooped this one up because of the raving reviews on it, but I doubt I'll take much stock in popular opinion again anytime soon. I was completely bored through much of this film. I honestly don't understand the huge uproar about this one. It's fairly entertaining at best, aside for the maybe 10 minutes of cool bloody action in this 2+ hour film.
2019 Ranked
2010's Ranked
Comedies Ranked
Comedies in the 2010’s Ranked
Crime and Law Enforcement / Investigation films Ranked
Non-English films Ranked
1364. Yorum: THE MONTAGE
1365. Yorum: 
1366. Yorum: it’s so metaphorical!
hilarious and tense, but so fucking poignant. the new home invasion is so timely. knowing this movie is wrought with a spoiler-esque narrative, i couldn’t help but let my mind wander into possible corners the movie might be heading and i still couldn’t have told you what was coming for a million dollars. beautiful writing. beautiful script. i am so thankful we have bong joon-ho telling stories in our lifetime. incredible acting from everyone, but man i love song kang-ho in everything i see him in. i’m to the point that his name on the bill gets me way more excited for the movie.
the tension was great this first go around, but i imagine it’ll be a much sadder watch next time and bring a whole new level of appreciation for it.
the hype is real. no hyperbole- this truly is a new masterpiece.
1367. Yorum: This is so metaphorical!
BEYOND FEST screening at the american cinematheque followed by a Q&A with the master himself!
so i pretty much went in blind and came out with my third eye opened jesus CHRIST!
also, discovering that bong learned english curse words for the first time from pirating a physical copy of Do the Right Thing in university literally made my day.
oh and they also gave the audience free vegan donuts from donut friend topped with kimchi!
1368. Yorum: THIS BIG BITCH LAYERED LIKE AN ONION
1369. Yorum: Solo somos personas empujadas al borde del abismo que intentan ser salvadas por si mismas, pero se hace dificil cuando la vida es tan indiferente. Exponiendo que todos pueden odiar al pecador, pero no al pecado.
1370. Yorum: i want to live in a house like this one day… minus the basement of course
1371. Yorum: "Thank you, I will drink until next morning" - Bong Joon Ho after winning oscar for best director.
Some say that he's still drinking to this very day.
1372. Yorum: the house is so well laid out in its first scene - it makes the reveal later on in the film so impactful because you already feel as if you know the house. how could a house this open be hiding anything?
The divide between rich and poor is also shown to us constantly through framing and focus. poor separated from the rich, or put in the background and below the rich.
And the water - the "deluge" and the Voss bottles and the storm clouds - all warning us of the storm that's coming.
watching this in the cinema in 2019 - only me and my friend and some random other dude in the cinema - was the best cinema experience of my life.
1373. Yorum: A suspenseful story displaying the difference in class.
The first hour could almost be considered as a comedy. With clever tactics in getting the family into the home with job roles, leading the audience engaged from the start.
The use of colour in this movie plays a big role in showing the lifestyles between the rich and poor. from sunny open areas, to dull narrow trench like environments.
Certain scenes can have you peeping between your fingers in suspense.
And others can have you shocked and not know what to believe.
Cinematography is beautiful in this movie. With camera work displaying emotion, and greed from the two families.
1374. Yorum: A rainy movie for a rainy day. Prosperity trickles down, all the lower classes with their upturned palms, so thankful for their flooded homes and basement dwellings. They push, pull, fight, and scheme for one extra drop, and they can only pray for a steadier stream. An urgent reminder that we all drink only when the dam collapses, even if we can only erode it bit by bit. It's an uphill struggle, but when the wall breaks, it won't just be those living at the bottom of the hill who get wet. Let them steep in that dank scent after the wave comes crashing down.
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
1375. Yorum: I hadn’t watched Parasite since its theatrical release back in 2019, so I figured now during my Bong Joon-Ho streak would be the ideal moment to reacquaint myself with what’s widely considered to be his magnum opus. I hope this isn’t a controversial view of the film, but while it’s obviously excellent, Parasite doesn’t hit that earth shattering sweet spot for me as it has everyone else. Three films in, Snowpiercer still resonates with me more profoundly, however making those comparisons is not at all to the detriment of Parasite’s near flawless execution. If nothing else, rewatching the film reminds me how spoilt we were with 2019’s batch of cinematic jewels.
Bong Joon-Ho reverted back to basics with Parasite, substituting his outlandishly inventive, topical critiques in Snowpiercer and Okja, for a new startling reflection of ourselves similar to his more grounded Korean work. How he builds the miniature world of the bunker though, crawls under the skin even greater than a hurtling train or corporate sanctimony and without question matches their magnitude in fantastical horror. Through his utilisation of prime set design and thematic levelling, we’re treated to a resentful illustration of capitalism’s discriminatory needle, and all its threads that have poisoned our social divisions. In a sense, Parasite picks up where the likes of Fight Club left off, except instead of anarchy as the answer, we’re riveted by a passively hostile infiltration of the profiteers.
Broken down to its bare essentials, Parasite follows the upward and downward spirals of two opposing classes of shitty families, until they’re thrust into middle ground because of the rigged game we bow to the tune of. This film is a Venn diagram of selfish manipulation, overlapping any conceived borders of the deliberately packaged natural order. I’m someone who thoroughly enjoys watching films based on awful people getting away with murder and other minor scraps, yet no matter how much entertainment is drawn from the sheer audacity on display, there’s an ungodly despondence undercutting the Kim family’s exploitation of the Park family’s conditional goodwill. This is for the most part felt by us audience members possessing an extremely sensitive disposition, more so than the Kims who are consumed by their advances towards the lie of material fulfilment. 
Parasite’s second half is where it all contorts into a gripping series of twists that elevates the film from a compelling character drama to a masterclass of suspense and emotional conflict. That ring of the doorbell knocks you outta a trance and only dives deeper into deceit from there. The feral eyes peeking above the basement staircase will never not be nightmare inducing and Ki-Jung perched on the overflowing toilet is a staggeringly phenomenal snapshot of an artist at the height of his creative ability. The flood sequence is a contender for the best of his career, but I’ve always interpreted it as a warning of retribution for their schemes as well as the inconveniences of the rich decimating the poor. And the fiery powerlessness emanating from that ending, the cyclical trap that’s unknown to the well endowed. 
Parasite is a reactionary picture against the clandestine futility towering above us, and a reproachful stamp on the freak-show we’re conditioned to live in. Bong Joon-Ho truly brought his unofficial “ideological indictment” trilogy of the 2010s full circle via shifting focus to average people threatened by socially acceptable inequality in a plain world. Parasite’s broad appeal is in its honesty of what we fear most, the frightening reality affecting us now, rather than the hypothetical disasters of future indiscretions. I have nothing to say aside from glowing praise, yet the fantasy fan in me will always be more magnetised towards out of the box insanity, and when pitted against Snowpiercer it doesn’t quite make the cut, even though Parasite is definitely the better film. Jury’s been out on this film a long time but it’s still leagues above the majority of modern releases.
1376. Yorum: Literally perfect
1377. Yorum: Though we largely root for the Kims, Bong doesn't allow anything as simple as rich versus poor, good versus bad. No wonder this movie speaks to global audiences - it's a parable about our capitalist world. As twisty (and twisted) as Parasite is, its plot beats are ultimately all in service of Bong's larger critique of the failings of modern capitalism, classism, and the disparities between the haves and have-nots (and not just their economic differences, either).
1378. Yorum: 
1379. Yorum: I saw this for the first time a little over a year ago and have not stopped thinking about it since. I didn't cry the first time, but I sobbed this time as if all the emotion I had been processing and bottling up from the first time was coming out now. I still can't write about this film, and I doubt anything I could say about this would really add to the discourse around it anyway. But this truly is a once-in-a-lifetime film.
1380. Yorum: Got you, you thought this was a negative Parasite review for attention huh?

This film is still the best of 2019 and you should learn not to so easily fall into these kinds of bait.
1381. Yorum: BARBECUE THE RICH! EAT THEM OFF STICKS!
1382. Yorum: A masterpiece. So metaphorical.
1383. Yorum: Parasite leeches onto societal dissociation to create a thrillingly hilarious satire on capitalism. “Rich people are naive. No resentments. No creases on them.”. “It all gets ironed out. Money is an iron. Those creases all get smoothed out by money.”. The Kim family, residing in the secluded darkness of a semi-underground basement apartment, acquire limited income. Jaggedly folding pizza boxes for an independent takeaway chain, with the already low-paying income reduced as a consequence of poor workmanship. They, much like the bottom-feeders of South Korea’s working class division, struggle to survive. Consuming rotting food. Hijacking neighbouring paid Wi-Fi services. Residing in potentially diseased sub-urban streets. Ultimately aspiring to achieve the lofty heights of upper-class formalities. Conceptualising the popularised term “Hell Joseon”, a critique on the current socioeconomic declining trajectory of South Korea. As the Kims tucked into their minimised dinner, son Ki-woo’s university friend gifts the family a scholar’s rock. Traditionally granting the bearer a promise of wealth. Swiftly after, he offers a proposition to Ki-woo. To continue his vocation as an English tutor for the elegant daughter of a wealthy family, the Parks. Ki-woo ponders, fabricating a plan that would seize this opportunity for beneficial gain. A chance to relish in the opposing scale of unequalised capitalism. After a successful lesson, Ki-woo insists his awareness for an art therapy teacher at the behest of the gullible Choi Yeon-gyo for her son. Ki-woo, unbeknown to the Parks, invites his sister Ki-jung to provide these lessons. Gradually, the Kim family, one-by-one, assimilate themselves into the lives of the Park family, pretending to be unrelated. The poor draining the wealth and opportunism from the rich.
Before tackling this critically lauded feature, which has now grown to be one of the highest-rated productions of all-time in such an inconsequential amount of time, the black humour of director Joon-ho’s filmography acted as preparation for what was to be expected. Providing critiques on sociopolitical endeavours that overburden an OECD nation. Predictably, yet efficiently, Joon-ho’s darkly comedic satire on class conflict manages to succinctly tackle the enragement of allocated resources that supplies social inequality and wealth disparity through the microcosmic insight of two opposing families. Not just in prosperity or affluence, but in temperament. A reflection of late-stage capitalism where the enticingly inviting wealthy superfluously ignore the difficulties of life for the remaining population. Youth unemployment at the expense of extortionate higher education fees. Affordability for shelter and essential food items rapidly dissipating along with the lower class. The Kims perpetuate these foreboding crises, utilising fraudulent and forgery crimes to attain the standard of living that many aspire to achieve. Yet, beneath the sharply hilarious foundations of Joon-ho’s screenplay, which confidently satirises the naivety and credulity of opulence whilst embedding thought-provoking themes of affirmative contemplation and economic disassociation, is a visceral vision of palpable colonialism.
The Parks original housekeeper Gook Moon-gwang imitating North Korea’s dictatorial leader, whom openly yearns to invade South Korea, mimicking the voice and mannerisms of a propagandist news reporter. Before engaging in a fight with the Kims for social dominance, a microcosm for the poor fighting the poor. The Parks’ son, Da-song, frolicking in the freshly sprinkled garden in an “Indian” outfit, memorialising colonial occupation. Whilst these are included as surface-level replications, the contextual substance beneath these depictions hark back to the economic order of capitalism. The poor decline, and the rich rise. The latter viewing the former as parasitical microbes feeding off of their principled success. Staircases acting as prominent motifs to accentuate economic disparity, with Kyung-pyo’s clinically precise cinematography emphasising their thematic purpose through extensive shots from banished basements and luxurious lounges.
Coincidentally, Joon-ho intelligently avoids assigning protagonists, rather viewing the perspectives of both social classes as unethical divisions of society, with the “upstairs/downstairs” ideology implying this viewpoint. Each cast member supplying bountiful amounts of energy and deliverance in depicting the social divide. Kang-ho and Yeo-jeong especially, with their eccentric portrayals of two parents from each end of the divide. The onscreen chemistry between Woo-shik and So-dam also enhanced the close familial bonds within the Kim family, working as a crime syndicate rather than individuals.
Every technicality and thematic endeavour was on course for perfection. From Jae-il’s orchestral score to Jin-mo’s precise editing. All Joon-ho had to do, to truly finish with finesse, was solidify a resonant conclusion. For a moment, with Ki-taek rampantly abandoning Da-song’s birthday party, he did. Fade to black. A statement on everything that was depicted previously was conceptualised in these final moments. Perfection! Alas, the feature resumed, and it kept going. The aftermath of the party, narration included, and the proceeding weeks unfortunately quelled the outstanding momentum that preceded the lavishly wrapped conclusion. In spite of the proposed incalculable unlikelihood of the climactic fantasy scenario, heavily inferring the inescapable boundaries of the proposed “coup de grace” for a particular individual, it was too immaculate. Heavy-handedly providing implications in a film that astoundingly dealt with nuanced subtextual thematic representations.
However, despite the agitated reservations for Joon-ho’s embellished ending, Parasite is a dramatic journey that is boundless in scope. Seamlessly blending genres through prosperous performances and luxurious direction, Joon-ho fully realises the dual meaning behind the feature’s title through sheer confidence. The poor infiltrating the wealthy, and the rich leeching off of the working-class’ labour. Society is self-parasitical. No grand life plan will change that. “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all”.
1384. Yorum: Third viewing still the best of the great last year but still not perfect like The Godfather ;))
Last movie of the record month and here a little rewind of it :) 
What a month of great movies. Beginning with 1st of April where kurosawas high and low killed my mind and builds a new favorite (deserved 5 ⭐️)but I didn’t thought that this month would come so many fantastic ones. Followed with fellinis la dolce vita the first 4,5 ⭐️ the Italian master director was also in. Disappointed before the picture of synecdoche New York has sadly who I also thought I would like. After that jim jarmusch gots often on my screen and night on earth and down by law were the favs of him with both 4⭐️Rating. Before the ending of tarkovsky should came I had another monumental project: the human trilogy. Three long filmed war epics which showed me again how I wrong I was with the fact that I’ve seen all important war movies. Then tarkovsky should came and so I watched all of his short movies and some rewatches till I watched his last two full length movies. Nostalgia 4,5⭐️ the sacrifice 4⭐️. What a director! On Easter a suited scorsese Pic and a few bonds with my brother in his bondathon. 
Then another epic Double Feature shines on this month with the second 5⭐️ Rating for Napoleon 1927 and a 4,5⭐️ for war & Peace. I’ve discovered and nearly began to hunt the Letterboxd top 250 especially the long movies. Edvard munch or satanstango were examples. After that I’ve rewatched two of my highest rated 4,5 ⭐️ once upon a time in the west which gladly got the 5 ⭐️ and so 2001 did with two rewatches and an experiment. Normally the highlight of the month but in this April the one highlight followed the other. Melville’s Le samurai brought the third 5⭐️ first watch in this month (record since I’m on Letterboxd) and I discovered other great directors like Agnes verda and her husband demy.. Chaplin and Brando my challenges to watch 100% of their movies were also often in and Also I watched many best pictures this month like midnight cowboy 4⭐️ or in the heat of the night 4,5 ⭐️. Ford brought a new 4,5 western in the month with his darling clementine and Laughton with the last high rating yesterday the 4,5⭐️ night of the hunter. 
So in conclusion I had the greatest movie month ever and I’m glad I watched the first time in my life more than 100 movies this month (109 exactly) and so I would see this as a peak in movie life and I will return to studiying and living the Sommer as good as it gets with corona. Thx for all who were with me this month. Had a Great time in a difficult situation!

Movie Months Ranked 
1385. Yorum: Just that kinda day
1386. Yorum: Finally got around to catching Parasite in cinema on the weekend, and can confidently say that Parasite is absolutely my favorite South Korean film.
Right after Old Boy. Hell, the whole Vengeance Trilogy really.
Then The Wailing. Then Bedevilled, which I still cannot believe only cost a measly US$636,363 to make. And then I Saw the Devil. Oh, and fucking Pietà, that film rules hard. Then A Tale of Two Sisters.
And then... Parasite.
1387. Yorum: For those of you wondering Letterboxd’s morse code message:
‪-••• --- -• --• •••• •• •••- •‬
‪-••• • ••• -‬
‪•--• •• -•-• - ••- •-• •‬
‪••-- ----- ••-- -----‬
I’m gonna spoil it below 😁
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
Bonghive Best Picture 2020
1388. Yorum: Happy for this masterpiece winning and making up for last year’s embarrassment.
1389. Yorum: The smell part reminded me of something a guy once said to me. Edinburgh smells of burnt toast, but Glasgow smells of pish.
I wonder if it was actually The Parks that gave off the smell. Smelt it, dealt it.
The Kims need to get out of the depths of their living conditions and cosy into anyone\thing that can offer more. First the son gets his chance and settles in, then he starts the chain event to nuzzle in the rest of his family. It's fun to watch.
I was fearful for the turning point as I liked everyone too much.Then ding dong, time for carnage.
I smiled away at the love these 3 family's have for each other, they were all so nice and would do anything for their OWN family. Damn this film was peachy.
Still pondering on who would you say is the parasite? The rich sooking out what they need and tossing the poor away when they cross that line, or the poor grasping for a nugget?
1390. Yorum: Money makes monsters of us all. The desperation to obtain it. The fear of losing it. The resentment that comes with not having it. The false sense of superiority created by having it. It eats away at us all. Like one of those... what do you call em? Those small organisms that latch onto hosts and feed on them? One of of those things.
Bong Joon-ho has crafted a piece of cinema so devilshly entertaining in its macabre humor it could make Polanski blush. So playful in its image-making it might make Hitchcock jealous. So adept in its sudden shifts in tone Tarantino might as well just retire. Loaded with enough genuinely surprising, yet seemingly inevitable, narrative twists to make M. Night Shyamalan want to blow his brains out.
AM I COMING ACROSS ENTHUSIASTIC ENOUGH FOR YOU, LETTERBOXD?
Best movie of the year. Best movie in several years.
1391. Yorum: 
1392. Yorum: This being my 5th viewing, I’ve run out of things to write about this movie...but I didn’t run out quite as fast as the woman in the theatre who couldn’t handle all the stress of the film’s climax.
I know this won’t win best picture, but when is the Academy ever right anyway?
1393. Yorum: this is hands down the best film ever like are u kidding me????????? HOLY SHIT THAT WAS EXTREMELY GOOD
1394. Yorum: 10/10
My fifth watch.
What was that? Did you hear that? I just thought I heard someone say "best movie of the decade."
1395. Yorum: ACADEMY.AWARD.PERIODT.
1396. Yorum: ‘this is so metaphorical’
Mark & Ian Video Discussion: Here!
★★★★★
Now the highest rated picture on Letterboxd, Parasite is a stunning masterpiece from the mind of Korean director Bong Joon-ho. Fresh off attending the San Diego International Film Festival, Mark & Ian discuss their experience, the film, and how they got cheated out of $20. Enjoy!
—CINEPHILEs
1397. Yorum: In terms of pure craft, I honestly don't know if there's a single fault anywhere in this film: even the simplest shot/reverse-shot sequence has such electrifying compositions that it feels like some kind of unfathomably bold avant-garde film (indeed, the extremes of style in bare-bones moments like these are maybe even more exciting than the bravura camera movements, which announce their artistry in a way that the anything-but-routine medium close-ups don't). The two main sets are visually compared and contrasted so well it makes me feel a bit woozy, and the way that the filmmakers accentuate the inhumane geometry of the rich people's house does as much as anything in the script to explore the gulf between the upper and lower classes not just as consumers, but as emotional beings.
The film navigates the most astonishing tonal shifts of Bong Joon-ho's career: it starts in neo-realism, moves to a dark comic caper movie, suddenly shifts into terror, and then ends in sadness, and this is all carried off with effortless organic fluidity, even when the movie actively goes out of its way to make sure we notice the seams. Still, I don't love it as it moves towards the ending; it's probably the inevitable way for this story to develop, but it also feels a bit too anarchic-for-the-hell-of-it without the compensating surrealism of Bong's other films. I can still easily see why somebody would rank this as the director's best film, but for me, I think I'm going to stick with Mother for right now, and maybe also The Host.
(Full review at Alternate Ending)
1398. Yorum: I’ll have to ruminate on this one a bit, but my first thought is that Parasite might be the strongest thing Bong Joon-ho has done since Mother and Memories of Murder. After flailing a bit with the over-the-top Okja and Snowpiercer, Bong has reined himself in and moved back to the slightly more grounded social commentary of Barking Dogs and The Host, to his benefit. Which isn't to say that Parasite isn't a wild ride, farce and thriller and pitch black absurdist comedy all wrapped up in one, positively Bunuelian. Definitely one of my favorite films of the year so far.
[Alamo Season Pass]
1399. Yorum: Damn, y'all are going crazy over some Park Chan-wook circa 2003 level misdirection and social themes?
1400. Yorum: Mi definición de una película divertidísima.
Me encanta que cada reseña que me topo en letterboxd la etiqueta con un género distinto. Me sumo al ruido: mis partes favoritas son cuando es screwball comedy mezclada con cuento de fantasmas con twist Bad Ronald-esco.
Mal título en español: “Guerra de clases”
Buen titulo en español: “Al nopal sólo se le arriman cuando tiene tunas”
1401. Yorum: WOW... and I thought Midsommar was the craziest thing I'd see this year with an ending that left me speechless... It's funny but also takes some really really dark and fucked up turns.
1402. Yorum: Well-made but too self-contained for my taste, a series of smooth, risk-free movements on an admittedly interesting playing field. Much of the action hinges on the parents, who are decidedly flat characters (the body odour storyline is the kind of cheap, purely functional narrative stunt Bong’s obvious predecessors would never have resorted to in their films), while the much more interesting son and daughter mostly fade into the background after the first half hour.
Still, there are images that stick: Ki-jeong holding down the toilet seat and smoking while dark, muddy liquid squirts out from under her, those vertically clamped in figures trying to open up a secret passage ... and, on a more abstract level, the visual setup of the two huge windows, one in every family home, gigantic vistas that completely dominate the respective rooms, but that do not provide anyone with a proper perspective. In fact the imago of total vision seems to, in the end, blind everyone involved.
1403. Yorum: No wonder this gem got almost 10 mins standing ovation at Cannes.(
and won the Palme d'Or of course)
PARASITE (not mistaken with that anime 'Parasyte') is a socially conscious themed film that masterfully wrapped in comedy and thriller.
From a thriller of Memories of Murder to a monster film of The Host, Bong Joon Ho could transform a family drama as entertaining as never before
Even the dialogue scenes are not tiresome, but intriguing and often hilarious.
To say more about Parasite and spoil its secrets would be to ruin the fun, but rest assured, it's a great film.
RESPECT!!!
1404. Yorum: 
1405. Yorum: The biggest takeaway from Parasite? Work your ass off to sneak your way into someone else’s life until they can’t live without you—become totally indispensable. Then, when you’re finally living the dream, mess it all up in spectacular fashion: hidden basements, poor life decisions—oh, and don’t forget to ruin a kid’s party on your way out. Rinse, repeat, and remember—being a parasite isn’t just a job; it’s a lifestyle.
This is one of the best movies ever made, and it was one hell of a good time watching it with the whole fam who hadn’t seen this masterpiece.
1406. Yorum: Hoollyy shit this was an emotional rollercoaster.
Every time i thought i finally figured out what was going on in this film, they managed to surprise me even more and fuck with my mind.
I really like the premise. It’s so clever and well-written and it has so much to say about class division and other important subjects.
And even though i thought this film was incredibly smart, unique and even funny at times, i still don’t completely love it, which is why i’m not rating it. 
There were a few things that turned me off, like the couch scene and not only. It was not necessary imo, i did not need to see that shit and it didn’t contribute with anything to the overall story or message of the movie.
I genuinely don’t even know what else to say because nothing i yap about in this review could ever do this film justice. Objectively speaking it’s an amazing piece of art, that is intelligent, funny and critical of the world we live in. I really connected with the subject and how Bong Joon-ho decided to go about it. 
Very mind blowing, at least for me. And besides being entertaining to watch it’s one of those movies that actually makes you think deeply about what it’s trying to say and it really sticks with you. 
I’m excited to check out some of his other projects. I’ll probably do ‘Snowpiercer’ next
1407. Yorum: the sudden urge to never make plans ever again is real! also, I don’t think any of you know this film. it's pretty underground😔
1408. Yorum: Excellent movie, but if I had to watch a movie with commentary on socioeconomic status between two families, one being way more advanced and the other being much less sophisticated...

I'd just watch the Croods 2
1409. Yorum: Shoutout to all the sons who got enrolled in Boy Scouts so they could be taught discipline and survival skills but really just ended up learning half of urban dictionary.
1410. Yorum: Everything that can be said about Parasite has already been said in exhaustive detail ten times over, and the few people just now trickling towards it will find a dearth of human opinions, analysis, and overwhelming praise to sift through, making it impossible to have anything new to add to discussion that their fellow man hasn't already expressed in a myriad of ways. I myself normally wouldn't have much I could feasibly add, given how I've already delivered two reviews that meet my usual detailed standard, both within the euphoria of its nominations and eventually wins at the Academy Awards that fully reflected the art of great filmmaking more than anything, and said what could have been considered thoughtful, excited reflections that's hard to add onto without a sense of looming redundancy. Having loved it twice before, just what could I possibly add to my statements?
Well, there's always the black-and-white version to talk about.
Yeah, this was kind of a surprise to me, considering just how strongly vivid the color palette was that Bong Joon-ho chose, but there seemed to be entirely new waves forming based on the rerelease where the film would be distributed without any color, and was something even Letterboxd briefly celebrated for a day or two. The essence of keeping hype alive was always strong with this film and the many #BongHive tweets, but the patterns of seeing certain films take on new life, and new critical attention, through eschewing color entirely is something that's intrigued me, especially since this type of behavior is completely the opposite of the usual reactions when a film is tampered like this. Aren't we the same film lovers who will criticize a black-and-white film gaining a new colorized print, or new technology and effects be added onto a film in later versions that we immediately call out if it's not quite right? What has caused the loss of color to become something of a prestigious act, one that I never really hear any truly negative buzz about in the infrequent times it has happened?
Well, why not run through the history real quick?
Part I: Ted Turner and His Damn Crayons
Controversy was arisen when Hal Roach Studios, once a key part of the golden age of silent comedy shorts, reemerged from bankruptcy, not with any intents of making films (as by this point their filming lot was demolished), but instead a different way of preserving film history. By the early 1980's, when television was fully adopted as a new standard of viewing entertainment, no station was broadcasting in black-and-white, as even the small UHF networks that appealed only to an audience that was growing more niche had either died out or fully adopted color to their broadcasts, meaning there was no more market for older films at a time when home video releases were just starting to pick up speed. In a way, what Hal Roach Studios was doing in restoring films like Topper and Way Out West was to give these films accessibility to new audiences, to be accepted as part of the unlimited abilities of film and to have people fall in love with these films again, even if they weren't in their original format.
There was a sizable amount of detractors towards colorizing well-regarded comedies from the 30's, but shit really started hitting the fan the moment Ted Turner announced what he planned to add color to.
Turner, the media mogul who is extremely significant to television's history (including, but not limited to, funding and developing what would become the first basic cable channel, WTBS), acquired over 2,000 films from MGM's library in the mid-80's, all made before 1983 and almost all of them being black-and-white. Hearing what the Hal Roach boys were doing to make their films available to people that otherwise wouldn't have cared, Turner decided he should do the same to classic films that would surely be hits on the networks he owned, if only they weren't peskily in black-and-white. A complete list of every film Turner helped supervise in its colorization would be excessive in making a point, but among the many cruddy noirs, war movies, and forgotten MGM flicks, some of the most noteworthy films were Miracle on 34th St., King Kong, and Casablanca.
This didn't sit well for a lot of important figures in the film world.
Roger Ebert and Gene Siskel accused it as an act of vandalism on Hollywood's part, and decried the television premiere of colorized Casablanca as one of the saddest days in the history of movies, showing nothing was sacred from Turner's graffiti and brought to question of why black-and-white was "dying" in the eyes of the public in the first place. John Huston hated the idea of his films being colorized, and his fervent stance led to a three-year legal case after his death regarding the attempted colorization of The Asphalt Jungle. Many other filmmakers simply hated the idea period, as people like Woody Allen and George Lucas, both of whom starter their careers well after color became the established norm, contested the notion of destroying these relics of another time by trying to modernize them to the public, as doing so would ignore the benefits and workarounds filmmakers and cinematographers had when working with a limited palette. It seemed like everyone who was important knew this was a bad idea, fearing a world where the original black-and-white versions would be destroyed forever in favor of the colorized versions. Surely no-one was on Turner's side given all this vocal outcry, right?
Not quite.
Part II: Citizen Capra
Defenders of Turner's colorization were rare, and the list of famous names in that camp dries up pretty quickly. Ronald Reagan and his wife, Nancy, saw the colorization of Topper as an immense improvement, adding just the right touches in the soft colors and wished Hal Roach Studios, and by proxy moguls like Turner fighting for colorization, their best wishes. Cary Grant, star of Topper, found the process to be interesting, and was extremely satisfied with the outcome of seeing moving images of himself from fifty years ago in living color. The enthusiasm of Grant led to quite possibly the most pivotal assistant to Turner's campaign, legendary director Frank Capra. Capra was finally a man who suggested some sort of credence to colorization, as here was a director helping Colorization Inc., a Toronto-based company practicing Turner's idea, in making a color version of one of the mostly rewatched films of all time, It's a Wonderful Life, that would see profits to properly rival any of the other films absorbed into Turner's wing. The idea of the film being taken away from its director for the sake of colorization was no longer true, and this potentially could have caused the alternate reality everyone feared to become true.
However, Colorization Inc. became greedy little bitches, and used a legal loophole that caused Capra to take none of the profits from the colorization, on the grounds that the film was public domain and the Toronto team technically owned the only new additives to this version of the film. With that, colorization lost its biggest ally, and everyone continued to despise it.
The death of Turner's colorization correlated closely with the aborted attempt to colorize Citizen Kane, a thought that angered everyone even more than Casablance did, from Welles shortly before his death, to the public, to anyone that had even a shred of common sense to their brain, which Ted Turner apparently left at home the day announced his considerations of such. Criticism was not the end of this era of colorization, but rather the high cost of taking on such endeavors was something that Turner Entertainment just couldn't make up for in profits, and legal considerations ended up destroying Citizen Kane in Color for good. A collective sigh of relief was heard all around the world that announcement was made on February 14, 1989 (maybe, I wouldn't know, I wasn't born back then ya bozo), and it seemed like films would finally be seen as they were filmed, either in black-and-white or in color, just as the studio, director, and era would have decided it so.
Part III: Colorization Reborn
Well....again, not quite.
A lot of people's gripes towards the Turner way of colorization was that it simply looked like shit, as many of the techniques in producing color versions of black-and-white footage in the 80's resulted in murky colors, instances where colors bled into background objects, and times where the chosen color simply doesn't fit with the object its coordinated with (a particular infamous instance of that last one derives from the film noir Suddenly and the decision to color its main star's eyes into a brown color. This might be a nitpick if that star wasn't Frank Sinatra, who was just, if not more, well-known for his nickname "Ol' Blue Eyes"). The technology simply couldn't offer any results that would dissuade anyone opposed with the idea, especially considering the tape-based format most of these re-releases would have to be crammed in.
DVD was a game-changer that saw new interest in colorization.
Now, with the greater space and new abilities this disc-based format offered to consumers in the mid-2000's (yes I know it was introduced a little earlier, most of what's to come became relevant in this chunk of the decade), the ability to decide if you wanted to watch a colorized version of a film or the film as it was originally made could now be offered to the consumer, and came with technology that had truly improved in its restoration processes, both for the original and colorized image. Yeah, some people really didn't like that some shorts by The Three Stooges were undergoing this method, but by the new millennium these were now the minority, and people began to accept these versions much more openly than they did in the 80's.
So how exactly did this happen, where the perception of colorization completely inverted itself and became OK?
Offering up the preserved originals helped, but it's perhaps because people now had the failures of Turner's attempts at colorization to look back on and try to improve in every way possible. Reefer Madness, an anti-drug film laughable in its mission, was colorized not to preserve it, but to heighten the camp value originally found exclusively by stoners, and caused some skeptics of colorization to realize there could be a legitimate art to coloring something in order to find new value in it. Shirley Temple, Ray Harryhausen, and Jane Russell all assisted in some way or another to modern colorists working with digital tools, adding a significant amount of names to the amount of defenders in an age where colored scenes began to look much more like the real deal, rather than the washed-out Turner age of color. Of course, a discussion like this shouldn't leave out the immaculate job Peter Jackson and his team of VFX artists did in reconstruction black-and-white film footage and breathe new life into the lives of WWI soldiers. Colorization has become far more advanced than it was when it was first criticized, and is nowadays more often left into creative forces that know what they're doing, and what they can do to avoid consistent failures of image quality.
This mindset of course finally brings us up to speed with...
Part IV: Decolorization
Tampering with a film to create new results is now something even the everyday user can perform to their own accord. Re-edits of films are plentiful in the Internet age, and such practices have lead to new discussion into morphing available footage into a new style. This has of course led to filmmakers choosing to present new monochrome versions of films that otherwise likely wouldn't have been funded without a splash of color. The world of black-and-white features has never truly went away, as many filmmakers working in the rising 90's independent circuit were still keeping up a monochrome look, like Jim Jarmusch for Dead Man, Christopher Nolan for Following, and Kevin Smith for Clerks (of course, Smith's the oddball since his black-and-white feature was out of budgetary reasons rather than artistic ones, but that doesn't change how well it fit in with the indie aesthetic of the time). Those films, though, were just that: independent, able to become black-and-white without the demands of a studio looming over you at nearly every step, hoping you didn't do something stupid like filming with only one continuous spectrum of color that could potentially prevent it from being a big success.
But that raises a good point: what makes these black-and-white versions that different from Turner's colorizations? Both inevitably change the look and potential tone for the film, changing the film into something that's different in the eyes of some from what it was originally released as. Is that not the same as changing the vision of a film we're all accustomed to into something that wasn't designed with a desaturated color palette in mind.
There's three famous examples of films that underwent a new black-and-white version after people became used to seeing them in color: Mad Max: Fury Road, Logan, and The Mist. Most people were absolutely floored at seeing all of these films in what was perceived as their "true" visions, allowing these films to exist in a way that's rare and known for the ways it can create a striking visual palette. However, none of them were filmed with the intent of being in black-and-white, and two were only desaturated after the fact. George Miller had complete creative control for Fury Road (after having bought the rights for future Mad Max films from Warner Bros. in the 90's), so him making it into a black-and-white film was an option, but instead he went all-out in its vivid orange-centric color palette and is happy with the theatrical cut. James Mangold only gave a black-and-white sheen to Logan after fans requested it so, and never intended to have it be anything but in color in the first place. The Mist is the only oddball, as Frank Darabont did originally envision it to be a black-and-white film, but eventually relented and filmed it in color, without thinking of releasing a desaturated version until he decided it should be included in the Blu-Ray release, again choosing to release a new vision just after the fact. Whether these versions are "better" than their colored counterparts is something that depends on the viewer, but it's hard to imagine modern cinematic techniques, like CGI, quick cuts, or frantic motion, working with a film that was never designed to work with a black-and-white cinematographer's limitations.
Then again, could Bong prove me wrong?
Part V: Casa-Bong-cla
Bong Joon-ho really wants to make a black-and-white film, and this is something he has expressed multiple times. Many of the classic films he grew up that taught him how to be a filmmaker were in black-and-white, on account of having to frequently resort to watching films not in theaters, but through the old black-and-white TV model his family owned, and this fact is something he has wanted to pay tribute to by making some sort of original story with only monochrome visuals to accompany it. However, difficulties in finding a studio that would agree to such an idea has prevented him from fully filming a project in black-and-white, and is something he has had to tampered with himself, just like the examples above, in order to test and gauge the public demand for a B&W Bong joint.
Mother, his third film, saw festival screenings in 2013 for a new B&W version, one he designed with the express interest of getting audiences to engage more with the actor's performances more than any other visual presence in the film, and one that seemed to have fairly positive reviews. Bong's latest, however, is an interesting example, as rather than waiting for a wide release of his film to prepare a B&W version, Parasite already had its monochrome cut completed before its world premiere at Cannes, and noted that each shot had to be re-properly graded shot-by-shot. My hesitance towards whether this will turn out into something truly different, or indeed notable, is still present given how the production design and cinematography was still constructed with the intent of color photography, but if there's something that could be capable of swaying me, it's Bong.
So....what do I think?
Part VI: Verdict
yeah, I don't know about this whole B&W decolorization trend...
When it's something as simple as a locked-on shot between characters engaged in conversation, or something that elicits suspense like walking down those darkened hallways that signal the most major shift in the labyrinthine plot, the black-and-white aesthetic proves effective and does provide something rich and new to the experience. However, whenever we're in either the more expansive steeples of the Park's exterior, or the interior of their home, things really run into a more drab style that doesn't work well with the digital cinematography employed, as the lighting from outside becomes almost a hazy mess that distracts from the focal points that are the characters, a flaw not apparent in the color version. For the most part the contrast and brightness can be well-done and show the effort Bong and his team employed, even if the absence of color in instances like Da-song's painting or the blood in the second half are sorely missed, but I never felt like I was watching a "different" film, and more a film that exists to remind me of what version I could have been watching, a near-redundant effort that at least looks pretty most of the time.
Parasite's still a stone-cold masterpiece, don't get me wrong, but I still remain unconvinced of the prestige that's become associated with turning color into monochrome works, as well as the notion that there's a dramatic change to it. The worst complaint I could lobby it (one I don't fully agree with even if my instinct compels me to say it) is that it almost feels like a snobbish revival meant to suggest something classier and more artistic only through its look, marketed in a way only somewhat dissimilar to the colorization days of before. Of course, that's an entirely unfair assessment, as the technology provided allows something much more mono-chromatically pleasing than what Turner offered and shouldn't entirely be discredited if we can turn around and praise colorization again. There is something to the monochromization of films like these, but to say it's an entirely different breed worthy of nothing but praise is something I can't entirely agree with, and perhaps it will just take another few years before we can have something truly revolutionary with this format. Maybe Parasite, as perfect of a film it is, wasn't the perfect option for this, and that's OK, because it just means future filmmakers can tinker around with advancing technology to make something truly moving in its new form, or the re-release's success story can finally convince studios that if a filmmaker, like Bong Joon-ho, wants to make a film in black-and-white, there's not only a market, but a pretty large market willing to enjoy the limited colors just like people did in the 30's to 50's, and even the modern-day in some cases. Time will tell if Bong can film his next movie in B&W, but I'll be waiting, almost eagerly, for the day I can eat my own words.
1411. Yorum: The reason I watch movies for entertainment is BECAUSE I can’t read. The world is against me.
1412. Yorum: the more i rewatch this the better it gets. perfection
1413. Yorum: Oh my this was just incredible...
Films like Parasite go to show that you don't need the corporate heads, mass-marketing or the cliché storyline to get people to watch it.
Sometimes all you need is a creative, unique & brilliant story. Usually I'm not a fan of packed theatres but I was more than happy this time.
I have a lot of thoughts on the film itself but I think I'll save them for a future analysis once I've watched it a couple more times.
1414. Yorum: First watch of the decade has to be spectacular so I chose Parasite
1415. Yorum: I'm unqualified to pronounce large-scale judgments concerning Korean cinema, as someone who doesn't live in Korea and thus is only exposed to what's deemed worthy of export. But being unqualified never stopped anyone from doing anything, and as such I feel pretty comfortable in pronouncing Korean filmmakers the world's current authority on the class narrative. Hailing from the Empire of Income Inequality, I have yet to see anything from modern American film that comes close to capturing the yawning chasm between the affluent and everyone else as what I see portrayed regularly in Korean movies, embodied by last year's Burning, and this year's Parasite.
Parasite is intriguing in that it's more notable to me for the things that Bong Joon-ho doesn't do than the active choices that he makes here. This makes it a great advertisement for Bong's top-tier directorial skills, but that distinction also holds it back from occupying the same rarefied air as recent K-masterpieces that we've been lucky enough to get. In a lesser film, you would have ended up with some idiocy about the importance of family and about how one's financial circumstances don't truly matter. When of course they goddamn matter. The film's starting point, the Kim family's hovel of a semi-basement, could have easily been romanticized as a source of humor but also a place imbued with family togetherness and isn't it the real home in the picture etc. etc. I feel like in an American film it would have been, as our reflexive need to pull punches in our stories is one of the many reasons why we haven't all picked up pitchforks and guns yet. The poverty here, like real-life poverty, is no joke. The roaches and the smell and the leaks and the pissing guy by the window are all comedic on a certain level, but it's funny in that way that you laugh at a bill that shows up in the mail that you have no possible way of paying. These are dire times for the Kim family, and the audience is allowed to look head on at the situation, primarily through Bong's talent for visual storytelling. Liberal use is made of the city's hills to point out that our protagonists are clawing their way up from a very real and very literal sewer.
Perhaps counterintuitively, although it shouldn't be, this tale of class is lent additional heft by Bong's portrayal of the Park family, a wealthy collection of magazine ads living a life that's portrayed endlessly as attainable but nothing of the sort for the vast majority of people. The Kim family patriarch, Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho) notes this within the story, but the Parks aren't bad people. Through the film, it becomes clear that they're pretty much a normal family, with its requisite share of familial emptiness, that just happens to be oblivious to its relative position in society. That obliviousness is mostly in the form of Choi Yeon-gyo (Cho Yeo-jong), the naïve mistress of the house and an easy mark for the Kim family as they insinuate themselves into the various domestic help positions. Bong's got a good sense of literary story, and so he doesn't go for the obvious source of conflict from that failure to comprehend, a trite rich vs. poor narrative. Instead, the struggle comes from where it does in real life, a viciously fought brawl unto death waged between the poor for scraps while those in charge don't even realize what's going on. Bong lets this story play out within the dingy confines of the Park house's secret bunker, its existence and its occupants completely unknown to its surface occupants, and the place where things start to get real dark, real fast.
This is true understanding on display from Bong, and it's transmitted expertly via visual story, so from a competence porn perspective I got my rocks off plenty with this. And that's the trouble, so frequently encountered from the film masters; it's a fantastic piece of machinery that's missing some soul. For such a stacked cast, you leave this film not really getting much of a sense of personhood from anyone. Song Kang-ho, the designated heavy hitter, isn't really an active participant in the story, more of a passive subject that offers some occasional insight. That job is reserved for his on-screen son, Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik), the film's central mover but not really much of a presence. He's the family's (relatively) clean-cut striver, and as such its least compelling character. This film's most interesting characters receive the least of its screen time; the hammer-tossing family matriarch Chung-sook (Jang Hye-jin), the gifted con artist daughter Ki-jeong (Park So-dam), and the cunning previous housekeeper Gook Moon-gwang (Lee Jung-eun). It's hard to complain about a masterful script doing the heavy lifting, but for a film with such immediate social importance, it was hard to come to terms with how little I felt for the people in it as I walked out of the theater.
Part of that might be the turn from comedy to drama to moments of outright horror, although I can't really decide if handling that any differently would have resulted in a lesser film. Characters that present as charming ne'er do wells quickly become capable of some pretty hardcore cruelty. That's not something that exactly strains belief, but it causes a little whiplash when so much care is taken into injecting mirth into a bleak landscape only to have it snatched away in a rapid fire series of tragic movements.
Something of a confounding film, but it's required viewing regardless due to Bong's emergent master status and the effect that this is going to have on the continually evolving international cinematic landscape.
1416. Yorum: I'm afraid I haven't seen Memories of Murder, but of the three Bong Joon-Ho films I've seen, this is, by far, my favorite. A main character keeps saying how metaphorical things are, and I'm fairly certain that the film, itself, is an allegory. This element of the film worked the best for me since a dissection of social classes couldn't be more needed. Just look to recent Chilean, Bolivian, and Brazilian protests for more proof.
The acting, set design, camera work, and editing are also fantastic. I totally get why this film has so many fans.
But, I think I've been spoiled by East Asian films in recent years with Shoplifters and The Handmaiden, both of which I enjoyed a great deal more. Perhaps it's not fair to make such comparisons, and it's likely that the hype messed with me. Still, Bong Joon-Ho has a love for too muchness that, when it happens, just doesn't sit well with me. Even when I understand why he does it.
1417. Yorum: 
1418. Yorum: 100
Every other movie in 2019: "Who are you?"
Parasite (2019) (dir. Bong Joon-Ho): "I'm you but stronger in every way imaginable.
1419. Yorum: Is there any other movie that covers as many genres as Parasite? Drama, dark comedy, thriller and horror, romance and mystery, it’s all there, blended, crafted and presented masterfully.
1420. Yorum: “They are nice because they are rich.”
I don’t know what I was expecting but it was not that. Honestly I gotta respect the hustle. Never have I seen a family get finessed so badly. They fucking nailed it with the title of this film. That ending was fucking mad.
The Finesse Family.
1421. Yorum: One moment that I always love in this is the walk home in the rain. The first time I saw this, I was still recovering from what had happened in the basement—an insane unravelling on a level I hadn’t seen before—but I had one thought. “I wish we’d seen this hike before.” I was being impacted by just how far down they go—I counted today, there are six different places they are shown descending—and wished we’d been shown it before, as it’s such a good visual metaphor. However, every time I’ve seen it since, I’m so glad that it waits until then to show you. 
For starters, that’s not the only visual metaphor representing the disparity between the poor Kims and the wealthy Parks. The upper-city mansion, with its open plan lounge & kitchen, multiple storeys, and wide garden of greenery, is not a subtle dig at the cramped basement dwelling, with its street-level windows, toilet-on-a-shelf, and stink bugs. The attitudes of the Parks’ is another thing—they expect things to just happen at the hands of others, rather than doing the work themselves.
Then comes the insanity of the basement on storm night. Your brain is fried by what has just occurred—I can still remember almost feeling dizzy with horror & confusion the first time the camera went down those hidden stairs, let alone the way it continues to twist—and then the hike. Suddenly the storm isn’t some cool lightning and nice rain out the wide windows. It’s an oppressive force, getting worse and worse the further down and down and down and down you go. I love that unfolding moment as you realise that they’ve had to make this climb every single time, rising to the heights only to have to come almost as far down as physically possible again and again.
Incredible movie, deserving of every accolade it won and deserving of more.
1422. Yorum: Parasite is the most accurate title ever, because this actually lives like a parasite in my heart
1423. Yorum: Put this one when I'm bored or have nothing else to do and I'll enjoy myself. My favorite movie with ease, go (re)watch it!
1424. Yorum: Don’t look down, stay where you are
Don’t look down, fill your platter
Don’t look down, just stare at your star
Don’t look down, it doesn’t matter
1425. Yorum: Masterpiece. Genre bending. With each and every viewing there’s something new to parcel out. Getting better and better every single time. 
Kyle's All Time Favorites
1426. Yorum: I could watch this on repeat forever
1427. Yorum: Ki-taek: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares.
There are reasons why Parasite is a masterpiece for tackling real issues like classism, social inequality and wealth inequality. It’s definitely been a while since I’ve watched it, so I was lucky to catch it on HBO Max the other night after having a long day at work. Parasite was something I exactly wanted after seeing what Jordan Peele did with his film, Us, and I wish the third act of his film was a lot more better than trying to be a typical nonsensical twist from a film by Shyamalan. But when you have an incredible filmmaker like Bong Joon-ho, you just know it’s a masterpiece! And like what the Critical Drinker says, “That’s all I’ve got for today, go away now!
Kim Ki-woo: Dad, today I made a plan. A fundamental plan. I'm going to earn money, a lot of it. University, a career, marriage, those are all fine, but first I'll earn money. When I have money, I'll buy the house. On the day we move in, Mom and I will be in the yard. Because the sunshine is so nice there. All you'll need to do is walk up the stairs. Take care until then. So long.
1428. Yorum: istg I believe that tent was from ikea
1429. Yorum: pizza delivery girl you will always be famous
1430. Yorum: 
1431. Yorum: This film has no right to be as good as it is. Everything is just so perfectly crafted. From the genre bending, to the tightly written plot. From the meticulous direction, to the masterclass acting. From the symbolic representation of social power, to the ambiguity of its title.
Parasite is a true masterpiece of a film, and it gets better upon subsequent viewings. This third one sure was a blast to experience and catch the little details I missed before.
"Ki-woo, you know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all."
1432. Yorum: I'm finally giving "Parasite" the 5 stars out of 5. It's so intricate and familiar while also seeming like something very far away from me.
Almost done with my Bong Joon-Ho adventure, I'm just gonna rewatch the black and white edition of "Parasite". I should probably watch his short films.
1433. Yorum: it’s very good. I mean, what else were you expecting me to say?
my top 100
1434. Yorum: I was happily content watching the latest Netflix actioner one evening when my wife came back into the living room after putting our little man to sleep.
I was surprised, because it usually takes longer for him to shut down for the day, and whoever gets to put him down inevitably goes down with him, making it night-over-for-two; but here she was, back and up for some movie time. And that meant I had to find a movie for the both of us.
I suggested the French artsy horror mystery movie Evolution (2015) because it sounded trippy and made for a suitable late night watch.
It took a little convincing cos my wife was doubtful and wanted to read up on some opinions on it first, insisting that it was probably one of those weird movies that favored style over substance. In the meantime, the clock was ticking and midnight was approaching. Not that we'd turn into elves come midnight, but starting a movie so late on a weekday made us extra groggy come sunrise.
Evolution was eventually greenlit, but half an hour into it I knew it wasn't meant to be. It's not that I wasn't liking it, but it's not a movie to play when you're feeling half asleep. Hence why the action movie was a much better fit for me.
And my wife was quick to tell me "I told you it would be like this" after a bunch of women, who were playing nurses to a bunch of children on a remote island, were seen sneaking off in the dead of night to perform some bizarre naked ritual on the rocky shore where they lay tangled up to form the shape of a starfish.
Then she remembered Parasite and asked why we didn't put that on instead, as we hadn't seen it yet. And so I had to remind her, for the 10th time since it became available on Amazon Prime, that it's a movie that clocks in at 2 hours and 10 minutes. There was no way we were going to finish it in one sitting - because that's how my wife likes to watch movies, which I understand is the normal way. Whereas in the last few years I've taken a different approach and tend to watch most movies in stages, as if they were cut in episodes.
So we put on Parasite (finally - after the rest of the world had seen it twice already) and the next 45 minutes flew by. But as it was nearing 1AM, I felt I had to make the reasonable decision to call it a night and continue the movie another day.
When that opportunity came round a couple of days later, we managed to breeze through the rest of the movie despite it being another late hour. It ended at 2AM on a weekday and we would pay for it the next day, but Parasite is the kind of movie that can keep two parents up past their bedtime, delivering a good amount of fun in this well packaged black-humor feature that leads to dramatic and tragic consequences.
This is a film squarely aimed at the middle class. Because I can only imagine how awkward it must be for some of the wealthy rich to watch what can only be a version of themselves in one form or another.
I remember this one kid I was kind of friends with in my youth, the son of an ambassador, and they lived in a huge house that I could get lost in. He had all the toys, parents that were always absent, and a lady of the house that seemed to be at his call 24/7 if he was ever hungry or needed a drink or someone to answer the door.
Shit.. even one of my best friends grew up like that. I used to envy the architecture of his family's house whenever I went over there. His dad had a red Ferrari along with another 'regular' car, his mom had her own, and my friend, from the age of 17, had a classic red sports car in the driveway that was older than he was. And they had a 24/7 maid around the house. That's still such an odd concept for me.
So as a middle-class citizen, the film had me marvelling and criticizing the upper-class lifestyle of the family on show, where they can hardly cook their own meals and are each lost in their own little bubble. And at the same time making me feel sorry for the lower-class and the extremes some will go to in order to get a little taste of the cream at the top.
But there's no sinners and saints here, just the status quo.
1435. Yorum: Actually very funny. Then VERY intense
1436. Yorum: the twist happened and the only other person in the theatre yelled "WHAT??"
1437. Yorum: Third watch, still golden. It’s quite interesting that when I watch this film with other people, they get disappointed by the end. Maybe I hyped the film too much...
p.s. jessica deserved better
1438. Yorum: 11:10am: With Letterboxd down for 30+ minutes, I was collecting my thoughts on how Bong Joon-ho’s masterpiece was masterfully crafted with just high class directing. Still to this day, I’m so bummed that I missed this 10/10 gem in theaters last year because it would’ve been one of the best theater experiences in my life if I were to be in a quiet, dark auditorium with a packed audience. It was kinda like me when I finally saw La La Land back in February 2017 in a nice and comfy theater with lots of film-goers there after a stressful day at college. Except with Parasite, I’m a college graduate and I don’t need to worry about countless of hard assignments from my college professors. I can go into any theater and get myself immersed into a movie with well-written characters and an intriguing plot without thinking too much about my hard-working life including my job and overall life. But, I still was able to get that cinematic feeling from home. Parasite is a true spectacle to behold for all you die-hard film enthusiasts out there.
If you ask me if Parasite was worthy enough to win Best Picture, my answer would be “Agreed 100%” at this current moment of this writing. Thank god I finally saw it, so that I can share my non-stop high praise towards this cinematic piece of gold. Avengers: Endgame, The Lighthouse, Uncut Gems and even Joker were competing for the throne as my Film of 2019 for a long time until Uncut Gem takes the cake because Adam Sandler took a huge U-turn on his career after almost an endless streak working with Happy Madison Productions.
If you also ask me where Parasite would be in my Top 5 of the year, it would land at a special #4 placement, but it might become a very strong contender for the Top 3 as time goes on. Parasite is an Unexpected Masterpiece (no pun intended)
Grade: A

Quarantine Watches 2020
Full List of Movies I’ve Watched Once in 2020 (Including Re-watches)
1439. Yorum: *DJ Khaled voice*
Another one.
It only took a pandemic to convince my mom to actually watch this movie. So that’s what we did today. It still slaps.
I’ve written about it before in earlier reviews — I think this one was my favorite review, personally.
And while I have you here, I filmed my first short film a couple months ago (I’ve done a few short films before, but this was the first time I actually primarily did the camerawork). It’s a little messy at times, but was fun to do with friends. And I’m continually learning with each successive project. 
There’s a moment when a character runs into the basement that I “borrowed” from Parasite. Would love to know what you think if you watch!
It’s a short comedy. Watch it here.
Thanks as always! RESPECT!
1440. Yorum: Seeing this movie on the IMAX screen was one of the neatest and most surreal experiences of my life. I would have never thought this would have been a timeline we lived in. Where this small little Bong Joon Ho film won Best Picture and is now being played on IMAX. It's just a reminder that good things do happen in this world.
Yeah- I'm just gonna go ahead and say it, this was my favorite film of 2019. I still love you Marriage Story- but I've seen this four times now and it never ceases to have me in awe by the end credits. Each viewing feels like a whole new experience, I've never seen anything like it.
1441. Yorum: It is interesting to me that both Parasite and Us have through lines commenting on the naivety and ignorance of the upper class to the plight of those quite literally below the poverty line. Each film addresses the idea that a capitalist society creates a situation in which the poor must claw their way to the top through infighting in order to ascend, and both movies do so by way of a metaphor that puts the lower classes literally beneath the upper classes. There was a lot of thematic overlap that made for a really interesting double feature. 
Parasite is truly just one of the most unique movies I’ve ever seen. The craft is immaculate, the acting is wonderful, it is funny as hell while also emotionally compelling, thrilling, and incredibly subversive. The movie transcends any one genre and blends together elements of comedy, drama, thriller, etc. etc. to create a perfect storm of storytelling. It well earned every single award it took away last night. 
The movie presents such a delightfully nuanced take on capitalism that few films with similar ideological sentiments have been able to match on any level. It presents a situation in which everything is shades of grey as opposed to black & white. The Parks are not evil, they do not act with malice and they generally seem like very nice people, but they’re ignorant and naive to the plight of the working class and especially the lower class. The Kims are not entirely lawful good and certainly do some things that we as the audience might interpret as cruel, but we still sympathize with them. Even the housekeeper and her husband exist in this moral grey area as antagonists in the story who also function as the other side of the coin that the Kims have engraved themselves upon. They are victims to the discrepancy in wealth too and they also garner sympathy from me as an audience member. 
A lot of discourse online has tried to pin down who the “parasite” is in this story, is it the rich or the poor or a mix of both? I say none of the above, the parasite is not a particular person or group of people but rather the idolization of materialism and wealth that motivates nearly every selfish decision made by each character in the movie. They’re not villainized on a personal level because they are not inherently bad, but the pursuit of wealth makes them do things that they normally wouldn’t or arguably shouldn’t do. 
Now this isn’t to say that the entirety of the wealthy class act ignorantly but without malice, as there are definitely many many people in the upper class who willingly and actively fight to keep the bottom 99% away from the luxury they’ve acquired. But Parasite presents a story in which none of the characters are wholly good or bad to my eyes and I love that decision. It’s a true ensemble piece where I had some attachment to each and every person on screen and I felt like I understood where they were all coming from in a way that is difficult to pull off with this many characters. 
I could go on and on about this movie but to boil down everything else I can say about it very quickly, the cinematography and score and editing are also all phenomenal, it is one of the most beautiful films of the decade, everyone should see it, and it is a masterpiece that deserves every bit of acclaim it has received.
1442. Yorum: maybe the real parasite was the academy for snubbing park so-dam
1443. Yorum: 
1444. Yorum: A work of art. It constantly keeps you on your toes. Watch it.
1445. Yorum: "I caught a bouquet from a bitch I never met."
-Wow! That is so metaphorical
Whoa, that second half was to die for. It's a beautiful painting that I would love to mount on my wall. I get that it was a tragedy, but, sometimes a heist doesn't always work out according to "Plan."
In life, failure is inevitable.
"Don't spend time beating on a wall, hoping to transfer it into a door."
-Coco Chanel
Bong Joon-ho delivers a massive hit that everyone should go see pronto. He explains exactly how society portrays itself between the rich and the poor. Its truly despondent when you think about it.
If you watch this film and don't interpret the message that Bong Joon-ho is giving you, then you really are lost and failed at paying attention.
1446. Yorum: Bro have u seen parasite
1447. Yorum: If not for some music choices early on that sounded royalty free, some on the nose dialogue throughout, & an inane dragged out third act with a lackluster denouement & ending that had me leaving the theatre unmoved, this could’ve been my favorite of the year behind The Lighthouse. Obviously a great movie otherwise though! Phenomenal performances across the board, an original gripping story with intriguing characters to boot, marvelous technical craft, fabulous pacing, an intricate blend of suspense & comedy that works both ways, & a fascinating examination of what it truly means to eat the rich in addition to human nature in the age of capitalism.

EDIT: originally had this just at four stars, but upon further reflection, bumped it up to 4.5. My issues still stand, but having read some pieces on the ending & its significance, it makes more sense & works for me more than it did. Contrary to what I said above, this is my favorite of the year behind The Lighthouse!
1448. Yorum: I didn’t really think anything was gonna pass Midsommar for me as my fav film of the year, especially with the extreme amount of hype I had for this film...but I was still blown away regardless.
I think it’s also a very easy film to watch, in the sense that general audiences (as well as cinephiles) are able to enjoy it and fall in love with it.
1449. Yorum: "Do it clockwise."
A South Korean blend. Parasite sucks the blood out of every genre and feeds on black comedy at every twist. Bong Joon-ho is a damn master and this might just be his best film. I can't stop thinking about it.
I'm on holiday in Canada at the moment (explains why I've been really inactive recently) and I saw this at the Bell Lightbox, where TIFF is held. It was the first day the movie played there and I just squeezed into the crowded showing, a completely packed room once the movie had begun. All I can say is that I'm now grateful of all them moments I put off watching this online, this was a perfect first viewing. I was amongst fellow film lovers who were all really into what they were watching, and every single one of us was stunned to silence at the final cut to black. Seriously, this is as good as everybody is saying - it's the film of the year, so good it left me in such a dreamy state that I ended up, a couple hours after leaving the Lightbox, getting the wrong train back.
AND the ensemble cast, wow, I couldn't ask for anything more - everybody was perfect and really did feel true to their characters and their relationships with their family. Ugh, this was amazing; good-old movie watching. Have a sniff.
1450. Yorum: i was almost late for class after but that just added onto the adrenaline
1451. Yorum: Ich habe innerhalb weniger Tage Burning und Parasite gesehen.
Die Welt ist vielleicht doch noch nicht komplett im Arsch.
Es besteht noch Hoffnung.
Ach und die deutsche Synchro macht aus Deutschen, Amerikaner. Warum das so ist, wird wohl auf ewig ein Rätsel bleiben.
1452. Yorum: It is always exciting to see what the Frenchies decided was film of the year as it never fails to be a better pic than whatever the Hollywood circle-jerk showers with a bukkake of critical accolades come Springtime. Little did I expect Cannes Film Festival to award the prestigious Palme D’or this year to a director who has been one of my least favorite filmmakers...until now. Bong Joon-ho’s English film debut, 2013’s Snowpiercer, struck me as overrated and dumb while 2017’s Okja was cartoonish and ham-fisted. It didn’t help that he’d relegated two of my favorite actors, Tilda Swinton and Jake Gyllenhaal, to cringe-inducing career-low sideshow performers. Besides that, I just couldn’t vibe with his grotesque and bumbling concoction of family-friendly cuteness, ultra violence, and quirky humor. It reeked of trying too hard and failed to land with me at every turn. With that said, let me be the first and most surprised person to say with no reservations Parasite is easily one of the best movies I’ve seen this year.
However, there’s the other genetically engineered super pig in the room: Parasite has an awful lot in common with last year’s Palme D’or winner Shoplifters. Putting aside that the former is a Korean production and the latter was Japanese, both films follow the lives of a poor family as they struggle on the fringes of society, running cons and scams to get by in a callous world. They are held together by their honest love for one another, and their example is set juxtaposed to the neglectfulness of a consumerist society that allows so many to fall through the cracks in the first place.
But the main way that Joon-ho one-up’s his award-winning predecessor is with an incisive sense of humor suffused in each character, a humor that is immediately, physically translatable despite the language barrier. It works here so well precisely because it’s reigned in and understated throughout the film, making the more manic parts hit harder - such as when Park So-Dam apathetically lights a cigarette on a lidded toilet spewing flooded sewage out the sides. The class conscious themes that have pervaded Joon-ho’s science fiction offerings up to this point are given a much greater sense of immediacy and relatability as we watch this struggling family elbow their way into the good graces of a rich, privileged, and naive family. Beside the obvious “haves vs. have-nots” one would expect from this scenario, there’s clearly an exploration of the structures that relegate people into servitude and poverty for generations, not just by the wealthy elite but by the pervasive mechanisms of misfortune that are maintained by the working class as we claw at each other’s throats for short-term gain.
Believe the hype, Parasite is well deserving of the praise it has received thus far. It’s tense, hilarious, and poignant, and I’m forced to genuinely re-evaluate this director’s output knowing that he knocked it out of the park this time.
1453. Yorum: PARASITE is like a ticking bomb. From the very beginning you can feel a sense of chaos coming but it's never too obvious. But then, a twist happens and you can feel the explosion right in your face and it is just marvelous to behold. The way it contrasts the parallels between poverty and wealthy. Between family and complete strangers. Between what's important to some may not be to others. This a riveting movie. Truly the film of the year.
1454. Yorum: A goddamn riot, but probably Joon-Ho’s least elegant work craft-wise. None of his observations regarding class warfare are particularly illuminating; it doesn’t help that the film is also formally monotonous. Joon-Ho does highlight the vertical hierarchy that quite literally puts the bourgeoisie at the top and the working class at the bottom, yet he never bothers following up on ideas he has previously teased at the onset. He milks his rudimentary understanding of class to the very last drop, incorporating it into the film’s form wholesale — just how many bird’s eye shots of poor people descending stairs must the viewer gawk at before they’re qualified to become the next Durkheim? Still a good time at the movies, but let’s stop pretending it’s deeper than your average satire.
1455. Yorum: i am gonna lose my goddamn mind........ there's too much to unpack i am not sleeping tonight girlies!
1456. Yorum: 
1457. Yorum: The scene in which Da-Song sees the "ghost" is everything: to him and his family, it's supernatural horror; to our main characters and the "ghost" himself, it's a very real disgrace. Being a ghost is scarier than seeing a ghost. And anyone can become a ghost, no matter how qualified one is.
And that last act reminded me of a phrase from an old Brazilian song: "o estouro vive sempre com a boiada". One day all hell will break loose. From an instant to the next. It's only a matter of time.
1458. Yorum: I N S A N E 🍑

basically, Hirokazu Kore-eda + Park Chan Wook = Parasite.
1459. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. No plan.” ⭐️
Best Performance: Song Kang-ho
Best Scene: Birthday Party
Best Character: Kim Ki-taek
Best Aspect: Writing
I got Parasite wrong on the first watch. Given that it used to be the highest-rated film on Letterboxd, won Best Picture in the stacked year 2019 and was praised by basically everyone, I went in with overwhelming expectations. Of course, such hype will never be met, so I ended up only liking the film. However, that’s since changed.
Bong Joon-ho ensures that every detail matters. Parasite is not just a class commentary, it’s a twisting and reworking of the formula into something greater. He portrays the Kim family as physically below the rich Park’s, consistently reminding the audience during his approach to scenes in staircases, cars and most obviously, rainy weather. The Kim’s have to “cross lines” to infiltrate the rich — wonderfully highlighted during the Peach Montage — but even those attempts only provide an illusion of power. The infamous change from dark comedy to thriller works seamlessly because the Kim family has reached their ceiling. They can only stay on top for so long.
There isn’t a “good guy” here. The Kim’s are the protagonists, but they are committing felonies left, right and center. On the other hand, the Park’s are the antagonists in the way of the Kim’s, though nothing they do is meant to hurt others. Both families are attempting to make ends meet, working toward that goal differently given their backgrounds. Perhaps it’s the housekeeper and her husband who are the true villains of the story, but they are also victims of circumstance. They might be psychos, though there is still a sympathetic understanding of why they act the way they do. That’s phenomenal character work across the board.
I used to hate the birthday party massacre. It’s the most over-the-top part of an otherwise grounded story, though I’d say it’s my favorite scene of the movie now. Not only are all the events some of the most breathlessly brutal in any movie — the stabbings are so simple, yet disgusting — it’s also what that scene shows for each character. Ki-jung (Park So-dam), the only character who fit in with the rich gets murdered, Da-song’s (Jung Hyeon-jun) “ghost” literally appears right in front of him again and Mr. Park (Lee Sun-kyun) is stuck by Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho) after he “crosses the line” by showing no care for Ki-jung’s injuries. Again Mr. Park isn’t a villain, though he undoubtedly had death coming when he complained about the poor people’s smell in such a horrific moment. 
The ending is depressing, but rightfully so. It doesn’t seem like after all the stress and tragedy, Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) learns much of why he failed. His father is forever going to run from the law and his sister is dead, though his attempt to buy the house and move up the socioeconomic pipeline is nothing more than another pipe dream. He never will buy the house as that endeavor mirrors the one he just failed at. It sucks to say it, but he and his family were screwed from the beginning. Time is a flat circle for the Kim family and they are destined to be parasites forever.
If some metaphors and details slip through the cracks, Parasite will remain a riveting ride. It stuns and engages on every single level without having a pretentious bone in its body. For me, that’s the mark of a masterpiece and a film that will forever stand the test of time.
“Respect!”
1460. Yorum: Parasite is still a damn fantastic film! Everything about it is amazing. I love how it bends many genres, has a pretty original concept and a pretty big twist. I still don’t know what I think about the ending. Such a good film, and one of the rare films that actually deserved the best picture win at the Oscars.
1461. Yorum: My friends love this movie
1462. Yorum: youtu.be/aYspbIKsiH4
1463. Yorum: R E S P E C T
Also, I’m super excited for the newly announced criterion release for this film...guess I’m gonna wait on buying the Blu-ray...
viewing #7
1464. Yorum: November 4, 2019 marks a first for me: I watched a movie in theatres twice in a row, as in the screening I came for ended and I literally just couldn’t bring myself to leave the theatre. I had to watch the very next showing of the same film. That’s how remarkable Parasite is - it lives up to every bit of the hype generated by my fellow movie lovers around the world. I’d go so far as to call it the greatest film released in my adult life. This gush will do for now - tomorrow I’ll get up and log my second viewing with a longer reflection on the film. But definitely see it if you haven’t, and I concur with others - AVOID SPOILERS AND EVEN THE TRAILER! I went in 100% cold and it was the way to do it (that’s right - I’ve been liking your Parasite reviews without even reading them lol).
Parasite for Best Picture. (added to 2019 Favorites duh)
1465. Yorum: An instance classic, instantly quotable and I instantly nutted when it ended
1466. Yorum: Urgh. The nuclear hype over this movie is sickening. There must something in the water because hordes of people have been gripped by some Groupthink, hive-mind mass delusion. By any objective measure, Parasite is grossly overrated. Technically good, with decent cinematography and good acting, but apart from that, it's just dull, and (IMO) morally repugnant.
* Why exactly am I supposed to care about this 'family' of selfish, uncaring narcissistic deadbeats? Because that's exactly what they are: narcissists, with zero empathy and/or feeling for other people. I get it: they're P.O.O.R and desperate, but the family is also presented as a group of uncaring scumbags who don't give a damn who has to suffer for them to better their situation, so again, I ask: why should I care?
* This would've been far more effective if the family were genuinely likable, and didn't take sociopathic glee in fucking people over. It would've been great if they came up with a way to achieve the same goals whilst being empathetic to others and making a concerted effort not to destroy lives in the process. That would've been far more interesting to me, and it would've given the movie and characters more psychological depth, especially when the shit hit the fan. Instead, the characters are one-dimensional caricatures.
* Re the ending: am I supposed to feel empathy for the father hiding out in the basement? Am I supposed to be rooting for the son to get rich so that the family can live happily ever after? That's what the director appears to be going for, but fuck that. They don't deserve it. Throughout the movie, they lie, cheat, steal, and con people out of their jobs; take advantage of everyone and everything, and commit murder. I didn't give a toss about any of the characters in the 'poor' family, and to be honest, the 'rich' family were far more likable, reasonable, and believable.
* Either Bong Joon-Ho went out of his way to make the poor family repellent (why else include the scene where the mother kicks the dog away, i.e. cruelty to animals); or he genuinely thinks that, despite their actions, they're worthy of admiration and/or empathy. If it's the latter (which seems likely given the final 5 minutes) then he's delusional, and probably a sociopath.
* Also: there's one particular story decision that's so nonsensical and contrived that is derails everything that comes after it. Specifically, the scene where the mother allows the old housekeeper back into the house. Why?! Why let her in? The whole family is in the house and the risk of getting caught increases exponentially by allowing her in. The mother could've just said 'NO' and that would've been the end of it. The mother has a right to be there. She's the new housekeeper. She doesn't have to fear saying NO, but despite the risk, she lets her in anyway.
* The decision makes no sense; it's lazy writing and is clearly contrived to ensure the next set of plot points can happen. There are numerous ways that could've played out: the old housekeeper could've had extra key (she'd been employed there for decades!); she could've snuck her way onto the grounds and seen the family through the windows etc. But no, the director goes with the stupidest story development possible, and undermines the story and the characters in the process.
This reminded me of 'US' in some ways, and that's not a flattering comparison. That turd is one of the worst movies I've seen in a long time. Parasite at least makes logical sense throughout, but in my view, it similarly ham-handed with its 'message' and underlying themes.
It's vomit-inducing to see critics and filmgoers fawning over this like it's some kind of inalienable masterpiece of modern cinema. Just read some reviews on here and you'll see the same pattern: effusive, over-the-top praise but precious little explanation as to why it's apparently such a masterpiece. Bandwagon jumping at its finest. If the critics had slammed this movie, these same people would be slating it.
1467. Yorum: A work of sheer genius from a filmmaker who never fails to make a deep impression on me.
Whilst being the only soul in my theatre and enjoying what I’d guess you’d call a private screening, It’s a crying shame that no one else in my city bothered to turn out for this masterful beast.
1468. Yorum: I'm so glad i can watch movies









(with the help of not so legal websites)
1469. Yorum: 
1470. Yorum: I had a class with a guy who said that he loved this movie because it exposed the true evil of communism 😕
1471. Yorum: Revendo este com minha querida matriarca, pois a mesma sequer se recordava de uma das obras mais influentes da última década — senão uma das melhores já feitas neste século.
Não é exagero pontuar precisamente o impacto realista de Parasite sob aqueles que imergem em sua história tão bem narrada, ou melhor, não é exatamente uma história, e sim, um brutal retrato da sociedade a qual estamos inseridos.
Parece engraçado pensar em como 2019 houvera sido um ano que a Coreia do Sul certamente esteve em seu auge. País modelo, idol’s sul coreanos estourando nas paradas, o crescimento econômico atrelado ao turismo e a exportação de produtos eletrônicos, fora o estilo de vida sul coreano que passa a ser muito bem visto ao redor do globo, então vem Parasite, uma obra que subverte toda e qualquer visão alienada de uma Coreia do Sul perfeita e igualitária. É o lado que eles não querem que você veja, mas é mais comum do que você imagina.
O chamado parasitismo é uma relação ecológica em que um organismo se alimenta dos nutrientes de outro ser vivo, em uma espécie de “interação” que beneficia a sobrevivência de um, e prejudica a do outro. Este conceito é habilmente aplicado sob a esquematização de ambas as famílias, que em detrimento da desigualdade social, acabam por se ver — implicitamente ou explicitamente — conectadas uma a outra em uma relação desigual de poder e sobrevivência, tal como um parasita.
Para além do seu provocativo teor social, o texto ressalta sua mensagem por meio de detalhes estabelecidos em meio a relação entre suas personas. Felizmente isso é muito bem ancorado pelas excelentes atuações do elenco principal, cujas interpretações ressaltam do modo mais cru possível a disparidade de vivências pelas quais estão sempre ligadas umas as outras.
Bong Joon-Ho encorpa seus elementos visuais com enquadramentos singelos e um excelente trabalho de fotografia, sempre acompanhados por uma potente trilha sonora que amplifica o suspense, seja pelo silêncio ensurdecedor, ou pelos acordes que mesclam o mais clássico dos instrumentais até os sintetizadores modernos.
No geral, Parasite é uma daquelas obras que você deseja voltar no tempo somente para revê-la como se fosse a primeira vez. Se a arte é uma expressão distinta da realidade pela ótica de outro alguém, então certamente Bong Joon-Ho olhou para além dos seus próprios olhos. Afinal,
Quem são os verdadeiros parasitas?
1472. Yorum: oh my god. this film is so beautifully made and the story of the film is really really good. i can see why this movie gets such high ratings. its funny, shocking, tense and bloody all at once which is absolutely amazing.
1473. Yorum: Some films are just
THAT good.
1474. Yorum: "Ki-woo, you know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. No plan. You know why? If you make a plan, life never works out that way."
1475. Yorum: “Parasita” dublado em português não perde praticamente nada. É um filme tão poderoso que atravessa as possíveis deformações da tradução. Comecei a ver de curioso e não consegui largar. Sua amoralidade agridoce e sua visão de mundo pessimista, mas inconformada é um negócio comovente.
1476. Yorum: gag of the century right here...
1477. Yorum: And almost 4 years later... this still slaps🔥
1478. Yorum: This is what I call a "note-takin' movie." I have some attention issues, so I feel like I don't catch things some times, which is why I really did take notes! In a notebook! Like school!
Taking notes actually increased my enjoyment though, as I tried to dig in here. Entertaining and interesting and well-acted on the surface, PARASITE has so many layers that the son actually says "this is so metaphorical!" a few times.
I think one good distillation is "the richer you get, the more you can mask your hatred for other classes." The main poor characters immediately display some scummy characteristics (that are totally understandable, given their circumstances), but with the rich folk, you *know* they suck, but it takes a while before you, and the other characters, figure out just exactly how.
I also found that when one class judges another, it's not always for what you think. When the rich guy fires his driver for allegedly having sex in his car, he is upset that the driver did it in his seat and not the driver's seat - basically he is only upset that he went above his "station." When the basement people judge the Kim family, it is for not being more creative in the way they are scamming the Parks!
And for all the scamming and disdain and murder, the Kims and the basement people still worship Mr. Park, and after allll the shit that goes down, the son STILL wants to live like the Parks!
So true to life that you don't want to believe it.
1479. Yorum: Peachy.
1480. Yorum: If you think Korea doesn't have beautiful products, watch this and you'll change your mind
1481. Yorum: the second act, holy shit. i completely understand the hype
1482. Yorum: 
1483. Yorum: La película que representa un cambio en el Status Quo del cine; Parasite no brinda un nuevo estilo, más bien representa lo mejor del cine actual . Un cine de alta calidad que recuerda el suspenso y los jiros de tuerca caracteristicos de los grande autores como Alfred hitchcock; claro, acompañado de un estilo cínico y viceral propios del cine clásico coreano. ¿De que va el filme? Sobre engañar al espectador y darles placer ... Perdón, de eso se trata en cine mismo. Un 10.
1484. Yorum: eat some peaches and kill the riches!!
1485. Yorum: if you’ve never swam in the ocean then of course a pool seems deep.
1486. Yorum: writing a review for parasite is kind of pointless.parasite speaks for itself.i think(and sorry if this will sound pretentious) that parasite is the citize kane of our generation.because in 70 years from now, every perfect aspect of parasite is going to be studied in film schools.every brilliant frame,every fantastic line of dialogue,every genius cut is going to be analysed to death.
a movie being so perfect is unbelievable.the camerawork,the writing,the editing,the music,the acting.bong joon ho masters techniques that were used by old masters like hitchcock and welles yet he creates a political and always entertaining piece of art that is revolutionary,to say the least.effortlessly changing genres,telling a revelant story filled with interesting symbols and themes in such an original and intelligent way.
bong joon ho innovates cinema.he always makes sure that we are at the edge of our seat and he always makes us think.he creates such a suspensful,funny,disturbing and trully essential piece of art.parasite is a true masterpiece.a bold,dark and sadly universal story told in a flawless way.a breathtaking and mesmerizing expierience.i laughed,i was shocked,i was thrilled,i almost cried,i had a blast.one of the finest,if not the finest films of the 2010's.my shitty reviews will never capture how perfect parasite is,but goddamn what a masterpiece.
all hail king bong and his magnum opus

(and this almost lost to a pretentious war film lmfao)
1487. Yorum: “Even though he always seems about to cross the line, he never does cross it.”
1488. Yorum: Watching this again and I like it a lot more. It’s so incredibly clever and funny and yet so heartbreaking all at the same time. Even if I don’t like the oscars, I full heartedly believe that this movie deserved to win best picture. It’s an experience that’s different from any other movie I’ve ever seen. I still think people have kinda blown its amazing-ness a little bit out of proportion though. As someone who loves it, I feel like the people who REALLY love it are a tad annoying at times. But like, a hardcore group of stans are annoying, what else is new. But if I let the annoyance of a group of people get to me then I wouldn’t be a fan of a lot of movies and other franchises. 
I’m glad I gave this movie a second chance. I’m glad I was able to watch it in an audience full of people who had never seen it before and hear their reactions to the several shocking moments. I love this movie a lot and it’s one I’m gonna be returning to for years to come.
1489. Yorum: the girls sitting next to me at the cinema were gasping every 3 seconds, as they should
1490. Yorum: i have been crying for the past 30 minutes. after an excruciatingly long bus ride, steeped in anticipation, i raced home only to find out my tv had been a bitch and only recorded the first hour of the oscars. disappointed but not surprised. by the time best original screenplay rolled around, i was only half paying attention because, as much as i thought parasite deserved to win, i had zero faith that it would. and then they announced it. and when i tell you i broke down, i BROKE DOWN. the waterworks and all. each year, what i believe to be the best films of the year, slip through the cracks and don’t receive the recognition they deserve. it has reached the point where i have just about lost all faith in award shows. after downloading the screenplay days earlier, i had gained an even greater appreciation of the subtle nuances within it and, let me just say, never before had i seen a film so worthy win an award. i came to the end of the recording and, by this point had only seen five awards announced. after a whole day of hiding from spoilers being thrown around left and right on literally every social media site ever, i realised i would have to look up the winner for best picture. my heart was pounding, hands trembling. the stakes were so high because i love this film so much and it was so far above the competition it’s not even funny. instantly i was flooded with news headlines. PARASITE PARASITE PARASITE. this was history in the making right here. i had dragged my mum along to watch this in august having heard very little about it and, as the credits rolled, we were at a loss for words, silent on the car ride home simultaneously in awe and unable to comprehend what we had just watched. nothing i can say would do this film justice, i told my friends the only way they’d understand was to watch it themselves. DON’T LOOK ANYTHING UP, GO IN BLIND, BE PREPARED TO HAVE YOUR MIND BLOWN, is what i’d say. until then, all i could do was sit in silence with my mum being the only person i could vent to about the beauty of parasite. yesterday, i ran through the rain to the store just to swipe a parasite dvd and carried it with me my entire shift (perks of having no locker). why do i mention this? because i think it’s testament to how bloody brilliant this film is. (pun intended)

i can’t write a clever review. i can’t write something poetic or metaphorical (see what i did there?). all i can say is, the worlds eyes are all on bong joon-ho right now, anticipating what masterpiece he’s going to make next. thank you director bong, the spectacular cast and crew and, i never thought i’d say this but thank you to the academy for finally recognising a film that represents everything cinema should be.
1491. Yorum: Yup!
1492. Yorum: i caught a lot more of its subtleties - both narratively and stylistically - this time around since i didn’t have to work my brains off to understand french subtitles until i saw baguettes everywhere. LOVE IT. there’s an air of greatness to it from start to finish, like a greek myth. destiny and a cruel yet wise maestro behind the curtain. the halfway turn from black comedy to thriller is magnificent. only been a couple months since i saw it in cinemas and it is still as strikingly intense as then, so i will likely rewatch it here and there in the future.
1493. Yorum: you: joker stairs
me, an intellectual: parasite stairs
1494. Yorum: Okay... y'all were right. This movie is exceptional. I'm not sure what I was expecting, but it definitely wasn't this. Tight plotting and excellent build up to a tense and unexpected third act... but consistently funny and somehow charming too! Brilliant in its simplicity and small scale. Completely impressed by this entire production.
One of this year's best, and in the running for best foreign film of the decade. Wow.
1495. Yorum: 
1496. Yorum: How could you not give this 5 stars. Like what more could you want in a movie?
1497. Yorum: Quella che all’apparenza sembra una commedia nera si trasforma in una violenta critica sociale fatta di sangue e risate amare. La regia di Bong Joon-ho indugia su ciò che è scomodo, ponendo l’attenzione su un’insanabile lotta di classe e andando oltre i confini di ciò che crediamo di sapere. Sorprendente.
1498. Yorum: “If I had all this I would be kinder.”
A film with a profound and powerful undercurrent that supplements an entertaining Oceans Eleven-esque breakneck plot all mixed together with a healthy balance of slapstick humor. Bong Joon-Ho’s ability to mesh genres and work with his — already immaculate — performers was incredibly noticeable.
While it’s a standard tale of the haves and have-nots it’s approach is anything but. The odd story melds so well with the Chaplin-era comedy. Each performance not only adds an immense amount to the pace and plot of the picture but in-turn they collide smoothly with each other. 
Would Recommend!
1499. Yorum: it’s all very metaphorical, isn’t it. a capitalist horror show. can’t wait to rewatch.
1500. Yorum: Two personally recommended house staff? That's possible. Three personally recommended house staff? There's an outside chance. But four personally recommended house staff? I'd like to see that!
1501. Yorum: "People who ride the subway have a special smell."
1502. Yorum: I had such high expectations for this film considering the hype and Bong Joon-Ho smashes it out of the fucking park with Parasite. My only regret is not going in as blind as possible about it.
A biting satire that puts the class divide, a topic that Korean films love to dive into, on full display. It’s delicately effective, being overt for comedic purposes without undermining the tone and seriousness of the film. Parasite shifts from scene to scene and varies from a horror-style crawl to a hilarious framing escapade but they never feel out of place, always feeling interwoven and natural in the course of the lengthy (but not felt) runtime. 
A story of a needy family intermingling with a bountiful one seems like a packed party, but everyone has a quirk to them that keeps you glued to each one of them. Each family’s “counterpart” matches up well, especially the two patriarchs, where I absolutely loved their stinging exchanges in the presence of one another.
It’s a beaut to look at and is indulgently entertaining with a meaning behind it, something that is so much easier said than done. An easy choice to put as my favorite movie of 2019.
1503. Yorum: this film...literally THIS film...what’s new?
1504. Yorum: [chanting] eat the rich
1505. Yorum: .-- .... .- - / - .... . / ..-. ..- -.-. -.-
(morse code for what the fuck)
1506. Yorum: You can read hundreds of reviews for this movie heaping it with praise, saying it’s amazing and it still can’t prepare you for just how fucking good this is. 
It also has premium dog content with 3 of the goodest I have ever seen.
1507. Yorum: هو أفضل فيلم شاهدته للمخرج الكوري بونغ جون هو، لماذا؟ لأنه صمّمه بطريقة تجعل منه مقنعا وممتعا في نفس الوقت.. يروي ضمأ النقاد والجمهور على حد سواء.
نقد ساخر للطبقات الاجتماعية في كوريا الجنوبية.. تلك اللقطات الطريفة في النصف الأول من الفيلم وظّفها المخرج كمغناطيس لجذب اهتمام المشاهد لقصة تبدو مشوقة جدا في ظاهرها لكنها تحمل الكثير من المعاني والرمزيات عن تباين المشاعر والأحاسيس لدى أفراد ينتمون لطبقتين اجتماعيتين متباعدتين.
التصوير والموسيقى بدورهما ساهما في تماسك الفيلم من الناحية التقنية.. بصراحة بعد مشاهدتي له أيقنت أنه استحق بجدارة السعفة الذهبية لما حققه من تميز في البناء وتطور الأحداث وكذا الأمور التقنية من إخراج وتصوير وغيرهما.
1508. Yorum: 
1509. Yorum: ADDED TO "2019 RANKED" :) 
A wild rollercoaster of hilarious heights and horrifying plunges, weaving between the two with such momentum on such a well-built track that the differing tones all feel like a natural part of the journey — my pleasingly large audience was alternating between laughter and gasps in the span of half-seconds. Even if one excludes the compelling substance and deft performances and immaculate photography (and why would you want to?), it’s still a rollicking ride that deserves immense praise for sheer unpredictability alone. I have a few small script and editing complaints that I won’t delve into now for fear of spoilers (avoid plot descriptions!), but this is a massive recommendation. 8.5/10 
1510. Yorum: 94
I got to watch everything Bong Joon-ho made
1511. Yorum: for some reason this time around (watch #5) i picked up on SO many little details that seal the deal that this such a groundbreaking all-timer. i know it’s rated extremely highly but if any film deserves it, it’s parasite. i always forget how amazing it is.
1512. Yorum: Right before I started the black and white version on the new criterion release, Bong gave an introduction about a movie being black and white. He talked about how you begin to notice more detail in the movie as you watch them in black and white. He is not wrong! I felt more tension throughout this rewatch that reminds me of watching a Hitchcock movie. I noticed how some of the objects in the movie helps convey more about how each of these characters embody a little bit of their counterpart. Hiding their hidden desires for a different life, but have become somewhat contempt with their current status quo. You begin to notice how clean or dirty some of the clothing of the characters are. How images are hiding behind mirrors so people can blend in and keep the class disparity at bay. The characters all have this idea that their status or life style can last forever, but we see a sequence of events that show how delusional they can be sadly. I swear, every time I see the scene where someone yeets a golf club, I am waiting for someone to say, “MY LEG”! But yeah, this movie is still the shit. Bong is great. Time to listen to some special features.
1513. Yorum: Fantastic film. I was taken in from the beginning and even with it being over two hours long it never lost my attention. It was funny in the best places as well. Great film.
1514. Yorum: 92nd Time's the Charm (6/9)
Going into Parasite I wasn't sure whether it would meet the high expectations that everyone else was promising and sustaining. Oh sure, if you factor in its Palme D'or win, the fact I gave Snowpiercer 5-stars without batting an eye, and the fact that it stands as the highest-rated thing period on this site, there's a lot of promise there. Knowing how stingy I can be in giving something as high an honor like a 5-star rating, a prestige a few others and I have discussed in terms of what it exactly means to give out 5 stars (a list you should check out and contribute to if you haven't already), there was definitely the hint that it might not reach this level of excellency everyone was sharing, as all around me behaved like the nicest, friendliest cult who are more concerned with sharing stellar arthouse films as opposed to the cult down the street that prefers latter-day Travolta flicks in the name of the God we all bow down to, I of course refer to Xenu, destroyer of life and wallets. Bizarre analogies and mild shade towards crazy people aside, surely this film would at least come close to what everyone was saying about it, right?
Bong Joon-ho, you son of a bitch, you DID IT AGAIN! YOU PROVED MY FEARS WRONG and ya made a MASTAPIECE!
The Kims, members of the struggling poor, swindle the elite rich Park family into hiring each of them one by one in order to survive their living conditions. Though at the heart the Kims are not bad people, as the film makes a point in showing how they look after each other even after their infiltration, the increasingly bad things they perform in order to ensure they can still maintain decent living slowly beat them down, as their quick path to success and thorough planning diverts through unintended interferences. Much like the metaphorical scholar rock, trying to quickly rise in the world without honest living creates dead weight, clinging and coming back until the inevitable burst of failure occurs, as the parasitic nature of these poor folks feed off the money and food of those higher-up with a self-centered approach and, in our patriarch Ki-taek's case, desire to not be associated with the grime and squalor of their class that forces his family to live in a sub-level apartment with frequent alley-pissers.
Then again, given the horribly flawed system of class divide that forces the poor to lose their minds in order to have a chance in success, is it any wonder that we feel sympathy for the Kims? The Parks, rich and well-off, live innocently and naively as a result of their luxury, sheltering them from anything broader than first-world problems and oblivious to the struggles and deceit of the Kims and like. To the Parks, the poor are simply cogs in their machines, dehumanized and never treated with care or sensitivity as the smell of poverty is met with disgust and scorn. To that end, the Parks also behave like parasites, sucking away the dignity of those who can't live as relaxed as them until they are treated as insignificant, improper human beings. In doing this we are shown the good and bad of each side of the social divide, nobody perfectly good and nobody perfectly evil. The true antagonist of the film is the bullshit system that proves needlessly unfair to the lower class, as both hunger and fall into the inherent greed that's forced to define both families for radically different reasons.
With such a pointed social critique on capitalism that has become recurrent in Bong's work, there is plenty more to Parasite that gives reason as to why it has become so acclaimed. It's thematic relevance is important, but it also manages to be incredibly accessible and a satisfyingly tragic whirlwind of emotions that could be greatly effective even without its nuance. A stellar tense and beautiful score by Jung Jae-il perfectly matches the thriller elements of the film, and it manages it actually juggle several types of moods and reactions without it ever feeling unnatural, as it shifts and turns like the rollercoaster it is. It goes without saying that Bong has plenty of tricks up his sleeves in terms of its unpredictable story and impeccable manic directing, and that this is a film that deserves to be remembered and beloved, as a sign of how to write and film a phenomenal script and how to understand the growing imbalance of poverty vs. wealth in not just South Korea, but countries all over the word. Here's to you, Bong, for your inevitable Best International Film Award, and for your continued streak of perfect scores from me (might as well just give you another one of those for Memories of Murder already, it'll be surprising if I don't).
1515. Yorum: burn the witch? nah, burn the rich
1516. Yorum: breaking my own stupid rule about not giving five stars on first viewings because this is a perfect movie and capitalism is a disease
1517. Yorum: I walked out of the cinema, and it was raining.
1518. Yorum: The amount of dots I connected watching this a second time...this film truly is something to behold.
1519. Yorum: I had read many positive reviews of Parasite, and had become curious.
Parasite turned out to be a skillfully filmed piece of black humor with an original plot and solid performances.
The main reason why I gave this not more than three and a half stars — which translates to 'good' (seven out of ten) — is that I'm allergic to farces, and ultimately Parasite is a farce, although a sophisticated, well thought out farce with a very sharp edge.
1520. Yorum: Masterpiece. Best movie I’ve seen in a real long time. GO IN COLD! Thank you.
1521. Yorum: 
1522. Yorum: I sat at my computer screen for 30 min, dumbfounded, scratching my head trying to think of something to write. All I can say is that it's Joon-ho's magnum opus and everyone should just go see it NOW! (please).
1523. Yorum: Tf just happened
1524. Yorum: rewatched this today, and it’s just as amazing as i remember. the opening and closing shots always get me, they were done so perfectly.
1525. Yorum: whenever i rewatch parasite i think maybe this will be the time i find cracks. yeah no, it remains one of the very few films i consider to be absolutely perfect.
1526. Yorum: Okay nvm. RIP Dune 2, Parasite earns the number one spot. I did many rewatches of Dune 2, and I can now say that Parasite is just a TINY little bit better. But it's very close, like they're kinda on par with each other!
Anyway, Parasite is perfect. From beginning to end, this film captures you and leaves you hooked like your a cow in the back of the butcher store. Weird thing to compare it to, but I felt like I had to say something. Parasite is complete. It has heart, emotion, drama, twists, EVERYTHING.
I am preparing to make a whole essay thing on this film soon. Don't know when. But that is why this is a little smaller review. I'm gonna express my thoughts in that big one!
1527. Yorum: Parasite is the movie that finally put Bong Joon-ho on the map after he won Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, Best International Feature Film, and Best Picture at the 2020 Academy Awards. Much like everyone else, this is my first Bong Joon-ho film I ever watched, and I immediately knew that this was probably going to be in my top ten favourite movies ever made after I finished watching it all those years ago. So, does the film still hold up on a rewatch? Does it still deserve the title of one of the best movies ever made? Absolutely yes to both questions. Parasite is a movie that was so well deserving of the Best Picture Academy Award and the Palme d'Or that it solidified its place as one of the greatest movies ever made.
“Eat The Rich” movies are not really that original and have been told before, and they definitely will be told after this movie. I mean, look at the 2023 Academy Award Nominees. Both Triangle of Sadness and Glass Onion were films that tackled similar themes of wealth, privilege, and societal inequality, but I feel like both of those examples fail a little bit in being compelling as a critique of the system. Parasite, on the other hand, is the perfect example of how well an "Eat The Rich" plot can work exceptionally well, a movie so compelling about the class divisions in society that it pretty much ruins any other director’s attempt at achieving similar levels of impact this film had.
If you have been following me in the past couple of months, you probably know I’m an absolute sucker for portraying the absolute worst in humanity. It’s one of the main reasons I love Scorsese movies so much, and this movie has some of the most despicable people ever. Sure, they are indeed low class and very poor, but that doesn’t excuse being absolute dicks to people you’ve never even met, even if they are insanely rich. Their behaviour is appalling and manipulative, and that’s the entire point of the movie. It’s so fun to watch these people manipulate and lie their way into positions of power and then immediately pay the price for their actions.
It comes as no surprise when I say that this is Bong Joon-ho’s best-directed and shot film. I literally can’t believe how well every single shot of this movie is crafted. Every frame is meticulously planned and executed to perfection. I mean it when I say that this film might actually be one of the most gorgeous films I have ever seen in my entire life. The way that Bong Joon-ho frames his shots is so extremely well done and visually captivating. This is definitely up there with Blade Runner 2049, Killers of the Flower Moon, and Mad Max: Fury Road in being aesthetically beautiful in both its directing and cinematography.
I said in my Okja review that I wasn’t completely sure if Okja’s score was the best score in a Bong Joon-ho film, but after rewatching Parasite, I think I can safely say that Jung Jae-il absolutely knocks it out of the park with the score. It's insanely atmospheric and very orchestral; it fits very well for that each the rich narrative. I couldn’t believe that this movie didn’t get nominated for Best Original Score; it’s that good.
The dynamic between the four members of the family is so well done, one of the best portrayals of how families actually act on film. It’s very well done, especially in the scene where they are just hanging out in the Park’s home and messing around with each other. I absolutely love that scene; it is so well done and so well acted. One thing that I really liked on rewatch was Song Kang-wo’s performance as Kim Ki-taek, probably the best acting performance I have seen from him, and also I am super surprised that he did not get nominated for Best Supporting Actor for this movie because he was kind of phenomenal. Loved every second of his performance.
The script is also really well done as well; it’s one of the most well-structured and paced movies I think I’ve ever seen. Nothing about it seems to rush, and everything is given the perfect amount of time to unfold in a natural way that also raises the tension and the stakes considerably. Bong Joon-ho definitely deserved that Oscar for Best Original Screenplay. One of the best screenplays I think I have ever seen on film.
The whole reason I wanted to watch Bong Joon-ho’s entire filmography is because of this movie, a film that is so well-acted, shot, directed, scored, and written that it might have literally ruined how I look at and judge movies. It excels in basically everything that I love about filmmaking, all rolled into one masterpiece. It’s kind of insane that the Academy went from one of the worst Best Picture wins (Green Book) to this movie, which might honestly be one of the most deserved wins I’ve ever seen. Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is not only one of my favourite movies, it’s also one of the most powerful films I’ve ever seen and one of the most significant contributions to what cinema can achieve. Martin Scorsese may be my favourite director of all time, but this film solidified Bong Joon-ho as one of the most visionary and impactful directors of our generation.
So, I finished the Bong Joon-ho ranking, and was it a worthwhile experience? Hell, yes, it was. Each film Bong created may not all be equal in quality, but I think that there’s something uniquely beautiful about each film in his filmography that makes each of them stand out as their own critiques of society. Even Snowpiercer, with all its faults, still has its moments on how capitalism and social classes are portrayed and dissected within the confines of a dystopian environment. It was really cool to see Bong Joon-ho evolve as a director and become more and more of an expert on critiquing society in really funny and amazingly profound ways that make it simultaneously really engaging and thought-provoking. I don’t think I’ve ever seen a director do it with so much finesse and passion. Yes, Scorsese does an excellent job of critiquing various societal issues, but he does so in a strictly dramatized manner. I feel that being able to critique society in a way that doesn’t feel forced while also being highly entertaining is extremely challenging and probably will never be replicated to the caliber that Bong Joon-ho achieves with all of his films.
Easily one of the top ten movies ever made in my opinion.
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
My Favourite Movies
1528. Yorum: Would it be controversial if I said this is one of best films of the 21st century if not the best? Whatever I am going to say it anyways
1529. Yorum: “They are nice because they’re rich”
Parasite was the first film I ever added to my letterboxd watchlist and after all of the hype and all of my expectations it still managed to live up to my expectations. I went into this thinking it was going to be boring and overrated but after the first 10 minutes it captured me in an iron grip that I just couldn’t escape from for the entire 2h+ runtime.
I don’t think I’ve ever seen (while not exceedingly profound) a message and theme so carefully and meticulously interwoven into itself while also being able to hide a lot of subtext at the same time. It truly leaves you speechless at the amount of thought put into and the precision of every single choice.
I think maybe the reason this hits so incredibly hard is that it feels so, so real. You could really see this happening (and I’m sure something similar probably has) in real life and because of how well made it is this sense of realism just comes so naturally, even looking at the performances alone they literally couldn’t have been better. This is also completely unrelated but there was one jump scare here that scared the shit out of me for no particular reason
If this gets an American remake, which I can very much see it happening it could only do a film like this harm. The best thing from that situation would be the publicity drawn to the original film but overall it would very much damage its legacy.
Thank you for reading
As it’s the new year soon I will be going back and reevaluating every single film I’ve rated on letterboxd so if you see any of my older reviews take them with a grain of salt
1530. Yorum: The best use of a location I’ve ever seen in a film.
Watched with datmac56.
1531. Yorum: “if you make a plan, life never works out that way.”
THE FIRST FILM TO RECEIVE 1 MILLION 5 STAR RATINGS ON LB!!!!! it truly is a masterpiece and is so well deserved. but when EEAAO is finally available to stream on popular platforms, Parasite betta watch out!
1532. Yorum: timed it so when new years hit Song Kang-ho was stabbing the rich patriarch in the chest
1533. Yorum: Watched in black and white this time. At the start I was worried the lack of color would ruin some striking scenes such as Da-song’s party, but surprisingly I wasn’t bothered by it. This just proves that no matter how you watch Parasite, it will always remain a masterpiece. It got me into film. I hold Parasite dearest to my heart, and it’s one I have nothing but love for
1534. Yorum: 
1535. Yorum: Just peachy
1536. Yorum: It’s fairly easy to see how Parasite took damn near every film circle by storm late in 2019 into 2020. It’s a nonstop thrill ride, there’s no denying that, and the thesis behind the film also appears to be overly palatable and generally agreeable, even towards western audiences, who it feels like are the demographic Bong made this for. A social message regarding class consciousness which is made in order to be palatable, and not to provide a nuanced take on the issue, comes with its own slew of inherent drawbacks however. The shallowness of this allegory can be seen right from the beginning, with the working class Kim family literally depicted in a basement, seemingly lost in the forgotten depths of society’s dirtiest corner, while the bourgeois Parks are written with the worst, shallowest, stereotypes of ignorant rich people you will ever see. There’s nothing wrong with this i suppose, as Bong is accomplishing what he set out to, but there is just no nuance to these portrayals whatsoever thematically. Despite the film’s misguided attempts at achieving class consciousness, i still can’t find myself disliking this movie because it is simply too effective from a non-thematic sense. Luckily, no amount of stupid metaphors can detract much from my enjoyment when the filmmaking is the hypnotic and precise.
1537. Yorum: ermmm this says a lot about society 🤓 (im rlly rlly fucking stupid with a shitty piss poo brain so i didn’t understand)
1538. Yorum: A ghost story of sorts in which two families from opposite ends of the socioeconomic spectrum, living mutually dependent but ultimately separate lives, haunt each other inside a grand, modernist edifice. The ghost is, of course, class and the insurmountable chasm between the haves and have nots. The poor Kim family, like the stink bugs that infest their squalid but lived-in basement dwelling—so different from the spacious but lifeless mansion occupied by the Parks—even carry the smell of their otherness.
Although Bong Joon-ho’s central message is clear, that capitalist class structures impoverish poor and wealthy alike—the Parks may be rich, but their wealth has turned them into naive, infantilised husks who are incapable of performing even basic tasks—his continual shifts in tone and genre are invigorating, often funny and always entertaining. After an almost Ken Loach-like opening depicting the Kim family’s hardscrabble existence, Parasite variously becomes a comedy of manners, an Ocean’s Eleven-style con, a farce, a psychological thriller, a horror story and more, without ever losing sight of its characters and story. It really is exhilarating stuff.
That the film works as well as it does is largely due to Bong’s incredible directorial eye and Yang Jin-mo’s razor-sharp editing. There is so much foreshadowing and referencing that I am sure a second viewing would reveal a whole new layer of storytelling beneath the surface.
Parasite is a bold, compelling and often surprising story that makes full use of every cinematic tool—I haven’t even mentioned the incredible sound and production design. It is a film that will be haunting me for a long time to come.
1539. Yorum: Mereceu MUITO o Oscar que recebeu.
(Isabela Boscov voice) É um trabalho feito por um diretor, um elenco e uma equipe que acreditam visceralmente no que estão fazendo. Acreditam e trabalharam pra saber que o que eles estão fazendo é importante, é relevante e é original.
1540. Yorum: Der nächste großartige Film, den ich viel zu lange vor mir hergeschoben habe. Doch auch die Lücke hab ich jetzt endlich geschlossen.
"Parasite" ist ein unglaublicher Genre-Mix. Von Komödie, über Drama bis hin zu einem Thriller: hier ist wirklich alles vertreten, wobei der Film es schafft, die Grenzen wunderschön verschwimmen zu lassen. Er ist von vorne bis hinten perfekt inszeniert und sieht in jeder Einstellung einfach grandios schön aus, hinzu kommt eine großartige Kameraarbeit.
Die Charaktere sind alle wunderbar geschrieben und noch besser verkörpert. Sie schaffen es sowohl die heiteren als auch die düsteren Momente des Films perfekt darzustellen, wobei die Grenzen auch wieder verschwimmen. Doch nicht nur die Charaktere, sondern auch die Story ist von Anfang bis Ende unglaublich gut geschrieben, wobei die derbe Gesellschaftskritik sehr schön und subtil eingebaut wird.
Man kann hier sicherlich noch einiges mehr schreiben, doch ich belass es jetzt dabei.
Ich kann jedem nur raten, der diesen Film auch noch nicht gesehen hat: Macht nicht den selben Fehler wie ich und schaut ihn endlich!
1541. Yorum: i will NEVER get over this godforsaken film
1542. Yorum: let’s get this class war going! in all seriousness, this movie is mind-blowingly thought provoking. it is every bit as good as everyone has said it is. every aspect of this movie is specifically thought out. it just left me floored. i know i’ll be thinking about this for a long time.
1543. Yorum: showed it to my parents just so i could see their reaction to the peach scene and i was not disappointed. my dad can’t speak but he clapped A LOT and my mom kept saying “these people!!!” over and over so it was a success.
1544. Yorum: I noticed with this rewatch how often “having a plan” is mentioned in this film. Constantly the characters ask “what next” or “what’s the plan” and frequently become frustrated or confused when things don’t go the way they wanted it to. This entire film really represents how impossible it is to know what will happen next in our lives, no matter how meticulously we make our choices. Like Kim said, the best plan is no plan. 
I also appreciated the score a lot more than I did with my first watch. So good.
1545. Yorum: Happy Birthday to King Bong!!! We luv u!!! 💖💖💖
1546. Yorum: 🏘 With no plan, nothing can go wrong 🏘

I don't know if I liked this film because of all the great positive reviews it got, but I don't have to take the credit for it anyway, because it's a very good film.
I love the premise that Bong Joon-ho gives the viewer, class struggle, perverse effects and that everyone sees things depends on the social class you belong to. His satire is so well told that even though the story is in Korea, it wouldn't be unusual to think that this could happen almost anywhere in the world. The visceral mirror where social classes meet, a battle between rich and poor somehow making clear the question at the table Who are the parasites?
1547. Yorum: 
1548. Yorum: Rainstorms are beautiful for those who don’t have to drown in them. Then again, to even be able to find the rain beautiful is to be ignorant of, maybe complicit in, the suffering of those drenched.
1549. Yorum: An unemployed family of four living in a basement apartment in Seoul one by one gains employment in the home of a wealthy tech entrepreneur through fraud and deceit, stepping over the rich family's original employees to take their positions. Hence the title "Parasite". You see how the title applies to everyone in the film in one way or another as you get deeper into it. Pretty soon it's evident that the capitalist system itself is parasitic making everyone caught up in it parasites feeding off of anyone they can in a big rat race. It's kind of Darwinian and makes you question what the point of it all is. The family seems to love and watch out for each other, however. There's warmth in there like a family saga that has you rooting for them to pull this caper off. But that's not entirely what this is about. Through scheming and deceit they make it into this beautiful mansion where things start spiraling out of control as the picture veers from insanely sharp humor to escalating levels of violence and then even a killer slasher film vibe as a symbol of pent up resentment over the blatant injustice of it all. The Koreans kind of kick ass here in how to make a movie.
1550. Yorum: First review: letterboxd.com/thommy1801/film/parasite-2019/
Second review: letterboxd.com/thommy1801/film/parasite-2019/1/
I have already said everything I have to say about this film in earlier reviews, so I keep it short. The rewatchability of “Parasite” is insane. You always discover new details and foreshadowing, and the many tonal and genre shifts are just as brilliant as the first time watching it. Writing, directing, acting, production design, cinematography, editing, and use of music are all topnotch and the thematically rich subtext offers a lot food for thought.
I watched the film together with a group of friends (4 of them saw it for the first time) and afterwards, we had a long discussion about its themes and message. I love it, when a film has that effect.
Oh, and I had to smirk, when I paused the film roughly in the middle and one friend said:” How is there still one hour left? What´s going to happen?” He wasn´t ready.
1551. Yorum: A must-watch for people who love a bit of detail.
9.3/10
1552. Yorum: where was song kang-ho’s best actor nomination!!!!!!!!!! no one’s doing it like him
1553. Yorum: BuT iT's NoT gOnE wItH tHe WiNd.
1554. Yorum: This film was as incredible as advertised and then some. An all-timer. 
(Still haven’t seen 1917 so will hold on making any Oscars comments until then). 
Absolutely amazing writing, directing, cinematography, set design, score. All of it. Every single element felt intentional & felt like it played an important purpose. Not a single second felt wasted. Everything & everyone was important to the story. The class commentary was as profound as advertised as well. 
One tiny detail that stuck out to me was how the father’s company was called “Another Brick.” Details like that throughout the entire movie are what put this film in a whole another tier. 
Wild and unforeseen ending too.
Movies Watched in 2020, Ranked (#3 / 286)
1555. Yorum: Black and White edition! 

Answers the question ‘how do you improve on perfection?’ with ‘you present it in black and white’.
1556. Yorum: RIP.
Bong Joon-Ho's liver
🍻🍻 (1969-2020) 🍻🍻
A perfect sweep!
Faith has been restored to The Academy.
RESPECT!!
1557. Yorum: masterpiece. that's it, that's my review
1558. Yorum: if we’re not celebrating this as our best picture winner in seven days time, we have done something seriously wrong as a society
1559. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho’s PARASITE is the greatest film I’ve ever seen. I’ve seen it 5 times now and I’ve never seen a film which perfects its craft quite like this. The pacing is so painstakingly done, it’s fast and a joy to watch; with the classical compositions leading every scene and beat of the story. The cinematography and directing is flawless, every frame is necessary and completely fulfills the hilarious and emotional script. This thing goes through so many tones and styles from dark comedy to horror / thriller without ever missing a beat, and it’s awe-inspiring. I have a passionate love for cinema, and films like PARASITE are the reason I watch movies and this is the only film I could recommend to absolutely anyone. It transcends genre as an accessible and entertaining film for anyone of any culture or political background.
See this movie.
1560. Yorum: 
1561. Yorum: A grand combination of all of bongs themes and stylish flourishes making one of the most tense, sad, and entertaining films of the year. Sincerely have not read a single good negative take on this film.
1562. Yorum: I already wish I could erase my memory and see it again. By far the best thing I've seen all year. It's everything in one and so much more.
“respect.”
1563. Yorum: 10/10
My second watch.
I walked into the theater and sat down. I was excited for my mom to see what had shifted two days ago from my most anticipated movie of the year to my favorite movie of the year, but I also felt relieved. Over the course of those two days, the days since I first watched Bong Joon-ho's masterful tragicomedy, I was unable to think about anything but the movie. So today, sitting in that dark theater, waiting for the movie to begin, knowing that I was going to see it again, I was overwhelmed with a sense of calm. And then the movie began. Every scene was even more exhilarating. Every performance was even more impressive. Every theme felt even more relevant. Every emotion hit even closer to home. Every detail, set-up, and pay-off felt even more perfectly executed. Everything - everything was even better the second time around. It feels like a movie that was made for me. I needed this movie to be as good as this, and Bong sure as hell delivered. I still can't fully handle this movie's existence, I can't believe it surpassed my astronomical expectations, and I can't justify giving it anything less than a perfect score. Well-played, Bong Joon-ho, and from the bottom of my heart, thank you.
1564. Yorum: 9/10
Road to My End of the Decade List - Movie #54
Not really sure if I can even review this properly. My expectations couldn't have been higher, so I really can't express how happy I am that it didn't disappoint me. In fact, it impressed the hell out of me, and I have a few quick thoughts I have to get out there.
Song Kang-ho is phenomenal as usual, and I think Cho Yeo-jeong is my pick for best supporting actress of the year so far. The use of space and shape made the whole film feel really kinetic and dynamic (especially in how it explored the idea of vertical structure and stratification), which was magnified by the perfect tonal balance of the levity, tension, and emotion. Bong certainly delivers the best direction of the year as far as I'm concerned. As a film, Memories is still his masterpiece, but his work here is just as good. It's the movie of the year, I have no doubt about it, and maybe even a 10 one day.
Added to:
My List: Top 1000 Greatest Films of All Time
Ranking: 2019, First Time Watches
Top 100 Films of the Past 25 Years
Top 100 Films of the 21st Century
Top 100 2010s Films
Ranking: 2019
Top 100 Mystery/Suspense Films
Top 100 Comedy Films
Top 100 Political, Legal, and Social Issue Films
Top 100 Foreign Films
Top 50 Asian Films
Top 50 Best-Directed Films of the Decade
Top 100 Best Performances of the Decade
Best Picture of Each Year (1920-2019)
2019: Top 10 First Time Watches per Month
The Road to My End of the Decade List
1565. Yorum: this is it...this is THE perfect film and now i won’t stop thinking about it
1566. Yorum: I'm sorry, but Burning kind of already occupies my place for South Korean film dealing with class divides, misplaced anger, and delusional artistic projection, unto which an unavoidable ending occurs, with lots of tonal shifts, and surprises... plus that one is more tuned into the real world, which ultimately makes it more effective. That's not to undermine what Parasite does on it's own merit, it's just, I don't feel like I'm actually seeing anything new, conceptually (and so recently for that matter). On the surface level, it's certainly intriguing and enjoyable, but even then, I feel like it doesn't go as far as the story needed it to. The "twist" is definitely surprising, but then, it just kind of sits there. It ends up being more a comedy of manners, or even, a farce, when it could have been something more horrifying/crazy, which would've been far more effective allegorically. Also (I'm trying to get all the comparisons/negatives out of the way, because there are praises I want to bestow), this seems like it doesn't want to indict anyone in the problems with capitalism, whereas, Burning wants to indict everyone; that subtle difference I think is crucial in effectiveness (everyone’s a victim vs. everyone is culpable). This wears it's allegorical sleeve proudly as if it's the first to make the observation, whereas Burning is starting to point fingers.
But my rating should still be an indicator that this is very effective stuff nonetheless, despite [potentially] murky subtext (I mean, the titular parasite I believe is supposed to be the system, but it kind of leans one way more than the other in the actual film - and it's not the way I think is intended...). It's a film that definitely follows its own mode of film-making. There's never one path it's set on and tied down to. Everything flows pretty seamlessly, as well as taking its time to naturally develop. There’s a very logical plotting of, here we are at A, and now we’re going to show how we got to B, before leaping to P, and winding up back at G (does that metaphor track?). In 30 minutes in the stage is set, and yet it feels like a whole movies worth of stuff has already happened, and that smooth ass film-making continues every 30 minute chunk. Bong really has a hold on pacing, and it never once dips, always keeping the interest up (even if it ends somewhere more with a whimper). Being only my second Bong (the other being Snowpiercer), I'm very impressed by his directorial confidence. The tone does remain the same throughout the film, even if a particular scene’s mood is changing; which is never an easy thing to balance.
This is easily my choice for Best Ensemble Cast so far this year; and they will be very tough to dethrone. Literally every single actor fucking kills their role (even the child!). Song Kang-ho is the standout in my mind (not sure if I’d consider him lead or supporting). His role is very complicated in its execution. He has to at once seem like a modest genius, whilst carrying an inconspicuous personality, and kind of detached defeatism overhanging, while being completely engaged moment to moment. There’s this feeling the wheels are always spinning in his brain. After him I’d say Park So-dam impressed me most, because she always has something peculiar pulling me in. Her performance is reserved on the surface, making me question whether she’s putting on a front, or if she’s being genuine, in every single scene. It’s an effective way to keep the audience engaged in her story/performance, and I was all-in at all times, verbally trying to decode motivation. Everyone else, like I said, did great, but didn’t individually grab me as much as those two.
It’s actually impossible to delve into this without spoiling it, and I’m not trying to do that. It’s certainly interesting enough and I’d recommend everyone to see it, but maybe tamper your expectations? This thing sings in stimulating fascination, as well as pure entertainment, but doesn’t leave much food for thought; though I seem to be in the minority on that opinion. I also don’t see myself revisiting this anytime soon, because I don’t think there’s too much information to extrapolate, and I’m not sure knowing “what’s going on”, would enhance the repeated viewing; though I could obviously be wrong about that (I predict I’ll be watching Burning a third, maybe even fourth, time before seeing this a second). This thing is full of bold choices though that shouldn’t just be taken for granted - music being geared towards a fairy-tale like feeling, a broad spectrum of performances, intricate staging amongst well designed (and distinct) sets, cinematography that glows, and a script that takes chances, even if it's too timid to go further in fear of alienation (satire/commentary can only work when it's able to cast the widest net on an audience).
I expected more, so it may be my own fault for not loving this, but ultimately I was not disappointed.
1567. Yorum: 5. September 2018 5⭐️ City Lights (1931) 5.January 2019 5⭐️ Andrei Rublev (1966) 
12. January 2019 5⭐️Stalker (1979) 
The last and only first watch 5stars for me at letterboxd are now with probably the best movie of the year finally four ones I think.  I’m not sure about it and I slept a night over it and even don’t know yet if it’s a five star because it isn’t 100% perfect I think. It deserves the appreciation no question but it’s at the same time absolutely not the 7th best movie how it’s at the moment at letterboxd. Imdb place 83 is a bit more the place it deserves. 
But enough said. We went normally to the cinema on our last day in the Australian vacation to watch again OUATIH but after I’ve seen parasite is on at the same time I couldn’t get any chance not to go in. Germany come out 17. oct I think is again like OUATIH much to late.  
To the movie it’s the perfect use of satire for the poor and rich difference in our society and at the same time it has good acting great dialogues a fantastic score, tension from nowhere action from nowhere and so much more to find. Only thing that annoyed me was the classic horror movie things who happened here also sadly. Some predictable/stupid movements of the main characters but when that’s the only thing I think it deserves the fourth place in my 5star first watch list which is really hard to become. 
So curious what this will make at the Oscars and what this will make on a rewatch because it isn’t that much better than OUATIH! 
I’m proud and sad at the same time that it’s not Quentin... 
26. September 2019 Parasite 5⭐️ (2019)



Surely a part of the upcoming top 150 movies list of mine.
1568. Yorum: Utterly speechless. How Bong Joon Ho manages to seamlessly transition from tongue in cheek satire to a weighty commentary on classism is not only masterful...it shouldn’t be possible, yet here we are with Parasite. What a remarkably powerful yet darkly comedic social commentary that continuously keeps you guessing through its descent into insanity. This is a SERIOUS awards contender. Still in awe. A straight up masterpiece.
1569. Yorum: it’s been SO LONG since i last watched a film that made my heart race. 
i went into this not watching any trailers or reading any reviews and i’m so glad i did because i saw none of that coming (heavily recommend doing this btw). i don’t think anything could’ve prepared me for the twists, it’s a film that changes direction every couple of minutes without being messy and i think that’s the best kind of film. it also juggles so many different characters none being bland or unimportant in any way and it’s brilliant!!!
1570. Yorum: Full review on Jakarta Post click here
Wildly amusing, profoundly weird, and inventively hilarious, Bong Joon-ho, once again, elbows deep into the heartbreaking truth of class inequality and social imbalance in an exciting, unconventional fashion. No doubt that it's a freak show from any angle, but the core thesis of what the film is trying to explore is so grounded to our reality and extremely close to what happens everyday in our surrounding.
It's a sharp-razor family tragicomic that also works as a laser-focused character study about class rage and the mayhem of socioeconomic pariah. Right from the get go, the film will grab you around your neck, suffocate you, drag your ass to unexpected places countless of time, and never let go, leaving you flabbergasted with no room to breath but plenty to contemplate about. Nothing will truly prepare you for this Palme d'Or winner!
1571. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho’s “Parasite” is nothing short of a cinematic masterpiece. The film’s ability to seamlessly integrate its core message into the narrative sets it apart as an incredible achievement in storytelling. Rather than relying on explicit exposition, “Parasite” employs its cinematography as an essential storytelling tool, elevating the narrative and magnifying the film’s impact.
The storytelling in “Parasite” is nothing short of exceptional. Each scene, dialogue, and shot is meticulously crafted, contributing to a compelling narrative that never feels forced. The cinematography is integral, not just a visual accompaniment, but a crucial element that enhances the depth and meaning of the story. This blend of visual and narrative elements makes the film not just a story, but an experience as well, especially considering all the symbolism.
Entering this film, my expectations were sky-high due to its widespread critical acclaim, yet the experience surpassed them in every way. Whatever I had anticipated, the film delivered something even more remarkable. Beautiful.
Top 100 | Foreign
1572. Yorum: There was no parasite
1573. Yorum: 
1574. Yorum: Awful. Americans actually trekking out to a theater to see this junk is sad but our elites anointing this nonsense is tragic. Parasite asks you to accept deeply immoral urges as a form of sympathetic expression. It’s a Trojan horse film that forgives and promotes what it pretends to criticize. Worse than Joker and Irishman. Sick!
1575. Yorum: After watching The Handmaiden (another widely-acclaimed South Korean film) only a few days ago, I think my expectations for Parasite were elevated to a completely unattainable level.
It's certainly a great film - masterfully shot and directed (Oscar nom' for Bong anyone?) with social commentary that is utterly on point, but I found the tonal shifts in the plot to be somewhat alienating.
Nevertheless, it's still one of the better films of 2019 so far.

Minor spoiler follows...

I would have loved to see the Min connection better utilised. When Ki-woo (Kevin) was carrying the scholar's rock into the basement, it hit me that Min may have been the son of Moon-gwang & Guen-se and that he had somehow orchestrated the whole deception to liberate his parents from their plight... How good would that have been??
Did anyone else think this?
1576. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho, you savage! This was one of the most amazing things i’ve ever seen. A masterpiece. An instant classic. Amazingly-directed. Truly hilarious. Very weird. Stellar acting. Beautifully-shot. Exquisitely-written. Darn it, just give this the awards it can get. Please, give Song Kang-ho & Jo Yeo-jeong some nominations, too. Wow, bravo! I can’t stop thinking about it!
1577. Yorum: Eh, I don’t get the hype. This felt about as half baked as Okja—though not nearly as horrendous in its (equally unnecessary) tone shifts. The idea of the working class fighting each other instead of fighting the structure that keeps them downtrodden as a horror concept is a good one, it’s interesting, but I don’t feel like this film even fully believes in that as a message.
Instead this feels more like a rich man’s warning to his fellow rich friends to never truly trust the help. Because isn’t that what this amounts to in the end? That the help hates and loves you to the point that they’ll kill for you, or at least for the privilege of working for you, is creepy enough. Nobody benefits in the end, and no real lesson is learned—as displayed by the son’s fantasy. 
The other problem here is that the rich family is far too dopey and empathetic to be viewed as horrific. That sex scene, for example, is pretty horrendously obnoxious—the idea that her role playing as a poor drug addict being a turn on—but she’s so damn doofy you don’t really feel the menace in it. You see Kim Ki-taek’s sea change of emotion as he slowly realizes the cycle he’s stuck in, but you don’t feel the force of the anger he later displays. Intellectually sure, emotionally no way. That the Parks care more about their own son than the bleeding help on their lawn isn’t really as emblematic of corruption as Bong Joon Ho is trying to make it out to be. Each family is shown equally defending their own—are we to judge the Parks more harshly for it? The whole movie felt like it cancelled itself out to just becoming a run of the mill horror-comedy. At least Us didn’t try to be anything other than what it was. 
TL;DR Great acting, great looking movie, great first half, weird second half that doesn’t add up.
1578. Yorum: If nothing else, it's better than Shoplifters.
Even if it isn't great, and it probably isn't but I don't know, it's a bona fide miracle that this won the Palme d'Or.
1579. Yorum: Hard to talk about this without getting into that final scene, so let me just say, without hyperbole, that it is one of the most powerful (and heartbreaking) condemnations of the class divide and capitalistic systems ever depicted in film.
And a hell of a lot of fun to boot.
1580. Yorum: easily one of the best movies ever made, oh my god
1581. Yorum: “What am I up to? I’m smoking a poop-covered cig on an exploding toilet.”
Next on 70mm.
1582. Yorum: 9/10. Damn, what a well crafted and intense film. Now I see what the fuss is all about. Bong Joon Ho proves himself to be a brilliant filmmaker to be reckoned with. A twisty plot with hard hitting themes such as social class and money. This psychological drama turns up the suspense and intensity all the way up to eleven. It’s tightly paced and well acted.
1583. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho Day at Le Grand Rex: The Host and Parasite
Kim Ki-woo: Dad, today I made a plan - a fundamental plan. I'm going to earn money, a lot of it. [...] When I have money, I'll buy the house. On the day we move in, Mom and I will be in the yard. Because the sunshine is so nice there. All you'll need to do is walk up the stairs. Take care until then. So long.
Just after Bong Joon-ho's interview explaining how he gets his imagination for making films and how life in South Korea and cinema inspired him to become a director, his magnum opus, Parasite, was screened.
It's hard to add more here next to my first review, and it's even harder when everybody has made writings or videos about this marvelous film. Bong Joon-ho assured himself he gave his 100% to this project, and it just shows.
There's a continuity of his studying field, such as how a part of South Koreans still live in basements or precarity, with no support whatsoever. People must climb the social ladder like cockroaches and eat the rich whenever they have the chance.
The Parks family aren't bad people because of their wealth. The issue though is that the high life left them completely disconnected from the reality they live in.
Even today, after many rewatch, I can't help but adore Parasite. I still laugh, get scared or shed a tear. All the genres possible are smoothly mix with one another and symbioses with ease. Bong Joon-ho doesn't much care about sublimity, because its subtle messages come naturally with the story.
What a chance we have to have witness one of the best films of all time.
Bong Joon Ho ranked | Asian Cinema
1584. Yorum: "It's metaphorical."
I mean this left me speechless. I'm late to the party but I finally got around to watching this masterpiece that has swept the cinema scene for years now. One of the best thrillers to date and the shock value is high! The tension was real and is created brilliantly. The characters are well written and the cast was fantastic along with the story of course. It's beautifully shot and engaging while really grabbing your attention from the start. The attention to detail with every shot and dialogue is really special and appreciated. It's twisted and dark but has you laughing at other moments and truly original, unlike anything else. The use of stairs and elevation for a visual representation of class is genius. There are no wasted scenes, they are all important to the story and themes and definitely more rewarding on rewatches. Even if you don't care too much about the themes and deeper meanings, this film is so well shot and masterful that anyone can appreciate this masterpiece. This one had me sitting in silence through the credits in a "holy shit that was an experience" type of way.
If you're like me and put this on your watchlist in 2019 but still haven't watched it, close this review and enjoy!
1585. Yorum: I wish I took notes for this. There were several points in this rewatch where I thought, “I should pause this, grab a notepad and pencil, and start taking notes. There’s no way I’ll remember all these details I want to comment on once I get to writing.”. But I didn’t. I couldn’t! This was my dad’s introduction to one of my favourite directors, Bong Joon-ho, but also his introduction to Korean cinema in general, especially Korean thriller which I have an affinity for. So I couldn’t just pause it! Anyone who’s watched Parasite knows what a truly immersive experience this is, and to rob someone of the full experience by pausing it, would just be annoying and pointless. So I guess next time I watch this, I’ll write something a little bit more comprehensive? Off the top of my head I remember a good deal of those details I had something to say about, but I’d much rather save it for a full review rather than half-ass it. Either way, I think I’m going to start whipping out a little notebook and pencil (when reasonable) during viewings so I can remember what it is that stuck out to me, absolutely all of it. 
If I can though, have a little to say about this, is that the foreshadowing is phenomenal, totally tremendous! Upon a second viewing, this is much funnier; more intense, contemplative, and ironic; and the symbolism greater. The cinematography, set design, and overall directing was just as breath-taking as I remember. When I watched it for the first time, it was on like a 60-70” TV screen; this time I watched it on a 10’ projector screen with a fully stacked home theatre system. This viewing was so elevated compared to my first watch; I really enjoyed seeing all of the wondrous details, wider on a much bigger screen. 
My dad’s thoughts were: “Well that didn’t go as plan! But there was no plan, right?!”, “the story was so original” and something along the lines of “amazing”, “incredible”, something similar. He’s kind of a tough customer when it comes to foreign cinema, indie or arthouse (basically most anything not made by huge big-budget Western studios), so to say that I’m pleased with his overwhelmingly positive reactions and thoughtful commentary is an understatement. Now that he’s slightly immersed in the genre, I might move on to some Park Chan-wook. Or… I might wait a bit for that, I don’t want to push my luck LOL! 
Bong Joon-ho ranked
Top 25 All-Time Favourites ranked
Favourite Film From Every Year I've Been Alive
1586. Yorum: 
1587. Yorum: “That rain was such a blessing.”
😤🤬😤🤬😤🤬😤🤬😤
1588. Yorum: if something is gonna try to change the trajectory of my life it’s gonna be this film right here
1589. Yorum: The pure bliss and overwhelming joy that took over me when I saw this is back at #1 on Letterboxd.
1590. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho really woke up one morning and decided to make the best movie ever made. Every few weeks I rewatch the peach scene just to check I can still feel something.
1591. Yorum: if you give less than 5 stars to this movie you are wrong
1592. Yorum: party rock is in the house tonight! everybody just have a good time (yeah!) and we gon’ make you lose your mind (woo!) everybody just have a good time!
1593. Yorum: Such a blast to revisit this modern classic. This fourth viewing was my first time not seeing it on the big screen. Around a year ago I went to the sold out B&W premiere at IFFR with some of my film school friends and that was such a great night. The Q&A with Bong was awesome too, obviously. Just flexing on y’all that I was in the same room as him ;)
With no doubt one of my fav cinema experiences! Don’t you miss the times of being in an audience and sensing the reception as the story unfolds? I found this particularly fun with this film, especially if you already know about the endless surprises that it offers.
With every viewing I’ve discovered new details and Parasite continues to amaze me with its originality, craftsmanship and the fact that it’s basically flawless from both a technical and storytelling standpoint. I think many would agree.
1594. Yorum: Showing Lance for the first time.
Somehow gets better every time. A modern classic that digs its claws into you right away and doesn't let go until the credits roll.
1595. Yorum: spectacular. hate myself for not watching this earlier.
1596. Yorum: A story of two families at opposite sides of the social spectrum. The poor ('Kim) family hatch a scheme to become employed by the wealthy ('Park') family, by posing as professional / qualified workers. 
A powerful thriller / black comedy from Bong Joo-ho. 
The less you know going into this film, the better. 
A meticulously crafted affair focusing upon class, wealth, and social inequities. Surprisingly universal - these themes reflect and relate in western cultures, as well as they do in eastern cultures. A fairly straightforward 'upstairs - downstairs' concept littered with twists, revelations and soulful tragedy. Each frame thoughtfully constructed and loaded with details and leading motifs. It's Hitchcock-level visual storytelling. The class divide is apparent and meticulously defined - from costuming, use of dialogue, diets, to living spaces. The question of 'who is the Parasite?' (be it society itself, prevalent capitalism, the Kims, the Parks) poses the resonating issue. 
The performances are fantastic, and their characters beautifully realised. The score compliments the events wonderfully - with simple piano melodies eventually swelling into grand, orchestral movements. Well paced, gripping and boasting a knock-out climax.
1597. Yorum: Parasite (2019)
Finally saw this movie and I got easily influenced by all the amazing reviews it has received and miserably enough it had a huge impact on the viewing of the movie and for my appreciation towards it.
I was not enormously impressed, the performances, cinematography and setting were the elements that kept me somewhat interested. The first half is a lot better than the second half in my opinion. The general story felt weirdly and unpredictably comforting. I found it super hard feeling connected and invested in the characters or the main story towards the end.
It's a good movie don't get me wrong but I don't understand all the praise it's receiving.
1598. Yorum: PARASITE is an amazing film.  When I finished it, my first thought was that it was a distinctive movie that had been over-hyped.  Then, scenes kept coming back unbidden into my mind ... and connecting both with other scenes in the story and with personal moments.  As I began to realize the depth of what has been achieved here, I was stunned.
   
There are so many philosophical themes in this show.  Here are six that really stood out for me:
   
* Rod Serling said, “People are alike all over.”  Despite the cultural differences, I found myself understanding these characters.  In fact, I know some of them;
   
* That said, the Classes ARE different.  We may think that the social constructs can be faked enough to fool others, but the differences never disappear;
   
* Strong emotional attachments don’t equal Love;
   
* The natural craving to quickly fix the things that are wrong in our lives is especially prevalent here.  It is why “pop psychology” still flourishes;
   
* The dangers of waiting for something to turn up instead of taking the initiative to make things happen.  If you are waiting for something to turn up, “Something” will be sure to find you;
   
* We are all living off of one another in some way.  The parasites are never only “them.”
   
There are more.  These of the ones that I’m paying the most attention to as I write these comments.
   
The performances are strong across the board.  The screenplay takes seemingly stray set-ups and loops them back to show intricate connections.  (I know that there is more going on with the Scholar Stone than I picked up from my one Viewing.)  The Cinematography “expands and contracts” throughout, leaving a suggestion that we are watching a breathing thing.  And the pacing seems to be achieved by frequently changing perspectives.  Wow.
   
A friend told me that the Director is planning a reissue of PARASITE in black & white.  This initially reminded me of the recent Blu-ray release of THE TWILIGHT ZONE reboot that contains the episodes both in color and in black & white.  I know that arguments can be made for doing this, but I can’t say that I’m a fan of the approach.  Economics aside (color films do better box office than black & white films), why wasn’t there a push to release the film “as it should be seen” before doing such a change? (I don’t care for colorized versions of black & white films, either.)  Will there be yet another “special edition” in five years or so like Spielberg kept doing with CLOSE ENCOUNTERS OF THE THIRD KIND?
   
In the meantime, PARASITE is definitely worth seeing and discussing.  It is also an effective springboard for self-reflection.
1599. Yorum: 
1600. Yorum: I believe in Bong Joon Ho supremacy
1601. Yorum: fuck
1602. Yorum: Hype can be so damaging to expectation especially when you see award nominations sweeping in and the film community are praising a movie so high that surely it has to be perfect. Fortunately this time the hype is just a teaser for the expectation and as the expectation was at fever pitch as I took my seat for the movie, I let the film wash over me while I laughed, was on the edge of my seat and dropped my jaw several times at some of the stunning views. 
PARASITE is a highly original screenplay that shows off all the key elements of telling a good story and decides to mash up a few genres effortlessly. I had no idea what to expect and I feel all the better for it, I knew it had major, major praise but I could see why in every frame. It’s a film that I can see appealing to all and one I can imagine going back to on many occasion. Clever and inventive, beautiful and deep, it hits home on so many levels and is a fantastic experience all round. 
Hype is one of the reasons I love movies, despite how dangerous it can be. Hearing glowing reviews of something new gives me goosebumps. Goosebumps I wouldn’t trade for anything.
1603. Yorum: 2019 Films, Ranked / 5 Star Films
Parasite 120419 @ The Loft Cinema:
Even better the second time around. Love this film & everything about it. Also, Song Kang-ho should be in everything.
1604. Yorum: walked out and an old lady stopped in front of me to turn to me and say “haha! let’s all go watch A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood now!” which i think was meant to be a dig against Parasite????
1605. Yorum: The best movie of the year.
Period.
That's the review.
1606. Yorum: HOW DO I GIVE THIS 5000 STARS

this film slapped my ass so hard that it literally fell off and ran away screaming
1607. Yorum: me: parasite is the best film of the decade
interviewer: elaborate on that
me: no
1608. Yorum: Crossing the line...
This is an enormously entertaining film. Probably the most fun I've had at the theater all year. Also left me with the most to think about afterwards.
The framing is surgical. The camera moves with confidence. Every single scene is meticulously crafted, and layered with subtext. Pacing is swift. Nearly every performance is enthralling and a joy to watch. What everyone is saying is true, the film takes on many different genres and tones, and does so effortlessly, but the foundation is absolutely a dark comedy.
This is important; it's important that you be allowed to laugh at the dichotomies presented here, because the events that unfold in the second half are so fucking outlandish that the levity provided in the first half help ease you into this film's many forms.
There are a great many themes here, and while they are introduced elegantly, they take root and grow in your mind after spending some time with them. Backtracking through the scenes also reveals just how subtly and how often these themes appear. Socio-economic disparities, materialism, capitalism, imperialism, one character's obsession with metaphors, all heavy themes, but all carefully and precisely laid out, and all paying off and twisting back on themselves.
With this much to chew on, it's surprising how ultra engaging and enjoyable this film is, and I think it's one that will definitely reward multiple viewings.
1609. Yorum: J'admire toujours autant l'ami Bong Joon-ho pour son cinéma des plus généreux qui passe par toute la gamme d'émotions, dans un exercice d'équilibriste impeccable. C'est difficile de concevoir meilleure manière de passer son temps devant un écran dans une salle obscure. Mais je tends à préférer ses premiers films: il me semble que depuis Snowpiercer, l'aspect "critique sociale" prend le dessus sur les personnages, pas au point d'effacer son humanisme, mais les personnages deviennent plus des mécanismes dans le récit, alors que dans The Host ou Memories of Murder on a toujours l'impression que c'est eux qui amènent le film vers l'avant, et qui justifient les changements de ton. Ça m'apparait beaucoup plus complexe ici que dans les deux films précédents, et ça s'en va dans une direction qui est moins prévisible que le laisse croire la prémisse et la première heure (notamment par cette maîtrise du ton qui renouvelle des scènes qu'on a plus ou moins déjà vues ailleurs), mais il y a quand même un "propos" qui surplombe le tout plutôt que de s'infiltrer subtilement à travers le drame familial.
Je me plains pas trop, c'est un ben bon film, avec quelques séquences extraordinaires, une mise en scène magistrale, et en termes de pur plaisir cinématographique je pense pas que je vais passer un meilleur moment dans une salle cette année, mais c'est pas le chef d'oeuvre annoncé, il me semble qu'il les a déjà fait, ses chef d’œuvres.
1610. Yorum: Mr. Park was very wrong because this smells like pure excellence.
Everything from this was unexpected from beginning to the very end, and I cannot believe I’m forever traumatized by a man poking his head from a staircase. 
Definitely one of the best of the year.
1611. Yorum: TIFF19 Film #4:
"Parasite" knocked me on me ass. I was expecting this to be great but not this damn good. I don't want to sound like a broken record but going in knowing as little as possible is the best way to watch this. I knew little to nothing and I was shocked at some of the directions it took. But it's also hilarious pretty much from start to finish which is also something that surprised me. Every performance here is gold but Bong Joon-ho is the real star here. His direction and script here are pretty much perfect. This is dark, hilarious, twisted, entertaining and most importantly unpredictable from start to finish. Not sure how I felt about some choices in the third act but this is a must watch.
1612. Yorum: 
1613. Yorum: BELIEVE THE HYPE.
Parasite offers so much. It’s an outrageous combination of thrilling moments, perverse comedy, and sheer outrage at the state of the world. Bong Joon-ho never lets the film feel forced or condescending in its theming of class warfare, and the entire cast is beyond perfect. I can’t wait to see this again and again. I’m just stunned. Jesus Christ, what a picture. 
I might write more in the morning, once I can sleep on this one. But good fucking God, it’s a masterful work of art.
1614. Yorum: Trickle down economics straight from the asshole
1615. Yorum: Watched it with my parents. Quite an exciting thing because they had never seen a South Korean film prior to this. My mother liked it a lot and I still have no clue what my father thinks, but I think it's still positive lol!
Still is my number one. No matter what, this will be it :D
My full thoughts: boxd.it/6gFZb9

I do quickly wanna mention that I'm noticing more details etc. that I absolutely love. I have seen this so many times now, and I can still explore things haha.
1616. Yorum: i wish my mother would get off that damn phone and pay full attention to the movies i try to show her. her attention span is worse than an ipad kid’s at this point
1617. Yorum: tiktok review
one of my favorite portrayals of social inequality, fantastic film.
march 2023 🍀
(7/30) edit: 4.5 to 4
1618. Yorum: Hello all, I wrote and recorded a video where I recommend movies from the LB top 250. I don’t recommend this one (in the video, not generally — though I do have a video about Parasite here), but it’s the top of the list so it made sense to use this as a representation.
The video is here.
It was edited and produced by Jack.
1619. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's anti capitalistic societal satire is a definitive genre blender that goes on to provide the delightful dramatic satisfaction while intrinsically tackling on much serious issues of class dissidence which are not solely limited to a specific contemporary society. Even though Bong's superlative peak can arguably stand to be 'Memories of Murder' 2003, exploring psychological states of brutality in the most non substantial manner, 'Parasite' will stand it's position in being a close second with it's abundant usage of ambiguity.
Dark neon subterranean spaces, claustrophobic atmosphere of utter filth, nights of unrest with the agitation of sorting one's own issues make up an economically repressed scenario which on the concurrence to the laying of a luxurious and symmetrical appearance of the relative aristocrats, crystallize the contrast of social differences and absolutely sustain the metaphorical context on an uncertainty of the role of the parasite.
Bong Joon-ho formulates a terrific narrative of simplicity which works on fundamentally graver issues in the form of a dark satire and masterfully choreographed sequences of anxiety coming from the thrilling properties, unlike a bunch of widely recognized films of the same stature, but only with an added complication in their plot structures. 'Parasite' surprisingly works with some brilliant and awe-inspiring cinematographic techniques to proclaim it's visual superiority but the major subject that puts us in awe, is it's uncertainty and absolute ambiguity; a narrative prospect Bong favors to work upon and has evidently mastered since his 2003 masterstroke 'Memories of Murder', as discussed earlier.
84/100
1620. Yorum: I'm obviously treading very carefully with this review considering what happened first time round. Just a reminder that if you report reviews for spoilers then you're a cop.
The second of my rewatches to determine my film of the year alongside The Invisible Man. Neither of them have helped a jot, to be honest. They're both still absolutely outstanding pieces of cinema even if, obviously, Parasite's reach and influence is likely to be far more significant.
I'm annoyed I forgot to watch the black and white version though. This hasn't helped me at all.
1621. Yorum: I got tapeworm to make the premiere extra special, but there were no tapeworms in the movie, so it wasn't really worth it also none of the actors knew english which is funny because last time i checked actors were american
1622. Yorum: Parasite would have received 5 stars if not for the questionable violence in the last act, which slightly marred my impression of one of the main characters. I could see why this was included, but it could have been avoided, as it arguably paints the working class in a similar light to the upper class. Other than that, Parasite is a splendid and engaging movie with great pacing and nice character arcs. The music and the lighting were great too. The music nicely captured, and accentuated, the atmosphere.
1623. Yorum: I’ve heard a lot of people compare this to Joker. I think Joker is better directed (I hate how every single shot seems to last like 20 seconds. Eisenstein would hate this), but Parasite is so much better written. The acting is about even, but the characterization is far stronger here.
Reminds me of a lot of a mid-2000s Shyamalan film.
1624. Yorum: too zeitgeist-y for me!
i definitely already know that rich people are bad and am officially ready for movies to stop telling me about it.
1625. Yorum: 
1626. Yorum: Exiting the theater, some woman behind said:
“Oh my god. You can’t trust anyone these days, we pay these people for a reason, you know!”
Ok. Lol
1627. Yorum: Despite an astonishing sense of precision, this film feels like it was written in a single session, the fingers furiously working the keyboard, angry and amused and sad. It might be the rush of immediacy, but seldom have I experienced such deeply sincere, faceted and sweeping emotion flicker over a screen.
1628. Yorum: After watching Parasite I now feel like I'm living in the famous story of The Emperor’s New Clothes; Everybody seems to rave about this films greatness when in all honesty I find it to be an about average movie that while it definitely carries some promising ideas both conceptually and visually it, as soon as it gets to the halfway point, it starts to suffer from some of the worst writing I've seen on film. The critical consensus, however, seems to be that that Bong Joon-ho's latest work is nothing short of a masterpiece, which just boggles me and now has me obsessed in a so far unsuccessful quest to find a single negative review of it.
The film follows an impoverished family on their quest to slowly earn the trust of a rich aristocratic family by posing as service workers and tutors in order to take advantage of their ingenuity. This story develops as the film simultaneously attempts to explore themes of class struggle and morality, containing elements of a thriller, a comedy and family drama.
While this sounds all sounds well and good in paper, the huge flaws in this film arise in the fact that the ideas and themes explored are completely cliché and presented to the viewer in the most obvious and shoehorned way possible, while somehow also managing to keep its supposed thesis muddled and vague. Painfully obvious symbolism seems to sometimes pop up in the middle of the film only to later disappear in a similar fashion, which can make what would otherwise be great visual storytelling moments feel completely groan-worthy; So it's such a mystery to me why the aspects of this film that most movie-goers seem to constantly rave about its supposed "Specificity", "Thoughtfulness" and "meaningfulness" when I find the complete oposite to be true.
Thinking back, what had started as an entertaining story that could have been both an entertaining as well as thoughtful view into class struggle, completely disintegrated into complete nonsense. Ideas and themes suddenly stopped making sense, while others were rubbed in the viewers face in the most obvious way possible. This is all then followed by one of the most ridiculous and soap-opera like epilogues I've ever seen.
With all of these obvious flaws I really have to wonder if I saw the same film everyone else did.
1629. Yorum: I am so glad I decide to break my brief sabbatical from film with this. Parasite is everything that makes cinema great. Taught, exciting, infuriating, saddening, and ultimately so poignant you feel utterly transfixed as the credits roll by.
The final 10 minutes will haunt my every waking moment for the next week.
1630. Yorum: Great movies are like magic and Parasite is one of the best magic tricks I've ever seen.
1631. Yorum: 96
It's best to go into Parasite completely blind. No trailer no synopsis knowing as little as possible. Having zero idea what I was getting myself into made this film an unforgettable experience. Firmly establishes Bong Joon-ho as one of my favorite directors working today. It's been almost 10 hours since I watched it and I still don't know how to process how unpredicatable and consistently surprising this thing was. Really really loved this. Maybe his best.
2019
1632. Yorum: Today is a rewatch day and so why not watch one of the best class movies ever made? Exactly as fresh as the first day I saw it.
1633. Yorum: Finally got the entire fam watch this masterpiece after so many nights of begging. It's just as fucking good as the first time.
1634. Yorum: "They say a ghost in the house brings wealth. Actually, the money's been good recently."
Even though this movie came out pre-pandemic, one of the lasting images that could be used to sum up the last four (almost five!!) years is Ki-jung sitting on an exploding toilet as she's lightning up a cigarette.
All of the Oscar wins for this movie are perfect, but it would've been that much sweeter if these actors had been recognized for their work as well. The entire ensemble rules, but Kang-ho Song and Cho Yeo-jeong are my two standouts.
Side note: the ram-don noodles made in this movie have been on my "Gosh, I wish I could eat that" wishlist, ever since I watched this. So when I was at brunch the other day with a friend at a restaurant that had a noodle dish that was inspired by Parasite, I had to order immediately. 10/10. Just how I imagined it. Kitchen Story in Oakland; can't recommend enough. Everything we ordered was killer.
1635. Yorum: Perfection at it’s finest.
1636. Yorum: EU TÔ ARREPIADOOO
4x oscar winner!!!!
1637. Yorum: mainstream ou pas je m'en fous c'est un chef-d'oeuvre
1638. Yorum: 
1639. Yorum: A great film teaching those that treating people wrongly has a greater effect on them than you can imagine.
1640. Yorum: Película para ver por lo menos dos veces, no tiene ningún segundo desperdiciado, cada toma cuenta y es parte de la narrativa. No solo se nos cuenta la historia a través de los diálogos, todo lo que rodea cada toma también nos dice algo, todo.
1641. Yorum: Oui oui, je viens de découvrir Parasite et c'était incroyable. Effectivement, j'en attendais énormément et je redoutais un peu de le regarder de peur d'être déçu et finalement, c'est un sans-fautes. Le film est tout simplement parfait. La photographie est splendide, la mise en scène est d'une justesse et d'une finesse exceptionnelle et tous les acteurs font un taff monstrueux et caractérisent à la perfection leur personnage. L'écriture est géniale, le scénario est sûrement le meilleur jamais écrit par le grand Bong Joon Ho. Evidemment, le propos du film est aussi très intéressant, abordant frontalement et de manière très juste des problèmes sociaux majeurs et actuels, dénonçant les classes sociales et la vanité intrinsèque de l'homme. Ce film renforce encore plus mon amour pour le cinéma de Bong Joon Ho et si vous ne l'avez pas vu (ce qui m'étonnerait), foncez dessus !
1642. Yorum: Was soll man hier noch sagen, was nicht schon gesagt wurde? Also mach ichs kurz: Beim Rewatch sogar nochmal minimal besser, weil es inszenatorisch so viel zu entdecken gibt. Der Film jongliert so gekonnt mit verschiedenen Genres, wie ich es sonst noch nirgends gesehen habe. Insgesamt minimal zu lang aber ansonsten erzählerisch sowie cineastisch ein Meisterwerk.
1643. Yorum: 9.9/10
my third time watching this movie
well, i mean, i don't think i can say anything new about it, everybody knows it's basically a perfect movie
-
minha terceira vez assistido
bom, eu acho que eu não consigo falar nada novo sobre esse filme, todo mundo já sabe que é basicamente perfeito
Bong Joon Ho Ranked
1644. Yorum: A very unique experience that I didn’t really expect.
  I think watching this movie without knowing a single thing about it was the best decision I could’ve made. The story was incredible and the characters were hands down casted perfectly for this idea. The dynamic of both families worked great together in my opinion.
   I loved it from the beginning to the end and even tho it was long, it didn’t feel that way which I really appreciate, because my attention span is usually very hard to keep for this amount of time. The visuals were satisfying but not exaggerated which made it an even better experience for me personally. I wasn’t overwhelmed but still very pleased with everything that was going on and I’m definitely gonna watch it again soon.
1645. Yorum: 2019 Ranking 
My Top 100 Films of All-Time 
Don't need subtitles to appreciate the comedic gold of each and every one of Cho Yeo-jeong's line deliveries. This viewing I decided to focus on blocking and my god, every, and I mean every frame is perfectly blocked with the way the actors are arranged against the surroundings, allowing you to focus on both equally. Needs to be said every time I watch this, masterpiece.
1646. Yorum: Still perfect!!
1647. Yorum: One of the easiest 5 stars ever given.
It's rare when a film this hyped up actually manages to deliver, and my god does parasite deliver!
This is masterfully crafted by the genius that is Bong Joon-Ho, truly unique in almost every way you can imagine. The first half of this film is almost a comedy, while simultaneously speaking on classism and poverty, he builds all the characters as imperfect but lovable and I laughed a surprising amount. Then all of a sudden the pace and tone completely changes in a split second and we descend into a gritty, fast paced thriller and some of our lovable but roguish characters become...less so. So many interesting decisions but you can tell every scene, every line has been so meticulously executed to make nothing short of a modern day masterpiece.
Please, please don't be like me and keep putting this off, it is one of the best films ever made period and must be experienced sooner rather than later, would recommend.
Bong Joon-Ho list.
boxd.it/gAwwU
1648. Yorum: There is no such thing as overhyping Parasite. It’s that good.
1649. Yorum: They are rich but still nice.
They are nice because they are rich.
I wouldn't say it's the best movie ever... but it's pretty damn close. The cinematography is beautiful, the plot is meaningful, and the great writing and directing help make it all the more timeless. That twist and that ending are both utterly spectacular and make this film's thriller side work so well. The dark comedy doesn't feel out of place in the slightest and actually enhances the movie in a few ways. It's a suspenseful journey that pulls you on the edge of your seat and keeps you there for a spectacular two hours.
1650. Yorum: Like yesterday’s film, Parasite was a film I unfortunately missed at the cinema. I was very excited to finally be able to see it because I am a massive fan of Bong Joon-ho’s films, especially Mother and Snowpiercer. 
Parasite follows a poor family as they slowly and methodically infiltrate the home of a rich family. 
This film completely deserves all the awards it won. The story was compelling, tense and thoroughly unpredictable. It also unravels brilliantly, with a fantastic scene in the middle that changes the entire tone of the film. It’s climax is amazing and was perfectly set up. 
The whole cast are incredible. Song Kang-ho, Choi Woo-shik, Jang Hye-Jin and Park So-dam are superb as the Kim family. Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Jung Ji-so and Jung Hyeon-jun are also terrific as the Park family. Lee Jung-eun and Park Myung-boon provide excellent support. 
Bong Joon-ho’s visual style has always been impressive but with this, he’s really outdone himself. The cinematography quietly builds this ridiculously unsettling atmosphere. It’s main location, a gorgeous modern day house, becomes some really menacing. 
Final thought: It’s going to be a while before I get this out of my head.
1651. Yorum: 
1652. Yorum: i finally got my sister to watch it with me and her commentary made for a better watch.. she gave it a 4/5 and im still wondering what she thought it lacked.
anyway happy father’s day to kim ki taek.
1653. Yorum: As an Asian person I can definitively say that all Asian Birthday parties end up like this...
1654. Yorum: Just as good the 2nd time around! Love it!
1655. Yorum: girl i-
1656. Yorum: The edit of Moon-Gwang vomiting in the toilet immediately cutting to the semi-basement toilet spewing sewage is such a brutally inspired choice that in any other movie, it would be the clear standout. Here, it took me three viewings to realize just how subtle Bong Joon-Ho's machinations are both in this scene and in the film at large, and just how well they are able to deliver the message at play.
Respect!
1657. Yorum: I am speechless...
It’s truly movies like this that are the reason why I’m so interested with film to begin with. This should win best film at the Oscars, but I know it’s not going to. At least it will have my admiration along with that of countless other moviegoers and cinema-buffs.
10/10
1658. Yorum: 2020 Movies: Ranked
Bong Joon Ho: Ranked
Similarly to The Lighthouse this was a film that has had a lot of praise and hype towards it, so I was eagerly anticipating this to be released in the UK. Luckily there was a one night preview screening of the film near me so I got the chance to see it before it’s general release this Friday. Parasite sees the unemployed Kim family take interest in the wealthy and glamorous Park family as the ingratiate themselves into their lives and become wrapped up in an unexpected incident.
The way this film combines and switches between various genre elements with thriller, comedy, drama and even horror tropes all seamlessly woven together and transitioned from scene to scene is nothing short of perfection. The story (which I won’t go into much detail here due to surprise and shock being elements) weaves its way through these genres and never feels out of place in any of them or it’s message and thematic focus on class and status. I mention comedy as well because the film is consistently and intentionally funny throughout due to the extent of the lies, the heightened nature of certain situations.
Gradually seeing the Kim family work their way into the Park house in various clever and meticulously planned scenarios is a thrilling and tense joy to watch. The tension reaches nerve shattering levels at times with such a claustrophobic and limited location that has been perfectly designed and shot for this film being the backdrop of several tense moments. Speaking of the way the film is shot, the cinematography and direction from Bong Joon Ho is stunning. The camera movements are graceful and smooth making sure the viewer catches every detail, the night time and rainy sequences look beautiful and the modernised set design of the house and impressive use of lighting really make the house look futuristic and emphasises just how wealthy the Park’s are.
The characters are all extremely watchable and very well acted. The Kim family (Kang-ho Song, Woo-sik Choi, So-dam Park & Hye-jin Jane) have great chemistry and really feel like a family. You will root for them throughout the whole film despite the immoral and extremely harsh lengths they go to throughout the film. Essentially they are acting two roles at some points and it’s very entertaining to witness. The Park family (Sun-kyun Lee, Yeo-jeong Jo, Ji-so Jung & Hyun-jun Jung) are also compelling, the film presents them as naive and careless due to their wealth yet you also will feel sorry for them as the genuinely aren’t actually bad people. 
Parasite is a fiercely original, multi-genre experience. Completely seamless in its narrative and plot structure and boasting some genuinely shocking and jaw-dropping moments. All realised by excellent performances of well written characters and some truly impressive technical aspects. A near masterpiece that really lives up to all the acclaim it is receiving.
1659. Yorum: And finally this one found its way to Finnish cinemas! Of course my expectations were enormous, but it was definitely worth the wait. A masterclass in writing; every single action and moment is so deliberate and so well paced that nothing seems even a bit irrelevant. The class commentary is at the same time both clever and gloriously in-your-face.
Maybe the sheer volume of everything put into it distracted me a bit from establishing as strong emotional connection with it as I would've liked (at least on a first watch), but the stylistic diversity is still admirable - it's true that it isn't simply a mix of different genres, but it creates its own. Personally I think I actually loved the comedic elements the most!
1660. Yorum: i wonder what min had to say about all of this when he saw it on the news
1661. Yorum: Ich schreibe zum Film sehr wenig, da man sich nicht viel über den Film wissen sollte und ich will ungern spoilern.
Mein erster Kinofilm für dieses Jahr wurde Parasite, welcher nur 2 Tage in meinem Kino lief und was soll ich sagen. Der Film ist absolut großartig. Parasite hat eine absolut starke Handlung, welche dazu noch sehr originell ist (kenne keinen Film, welchen ich mit Parasite vergleichen kann). Der Film wird zu keinen Zeitpunkt langweilig und ist durchgehend spannend. Außerdem ist der Film zu keinen Zeitpunkt langatmig und vergeht sehr schnell, was ich lange nicht mehr im Kino bemerkt habe. Außerdem hat der Film sehr gute Figuren, welche dazu noch sehr gut gespielt werden. Jeder zeigt sein können als Schauspieler. Aber auch technisch ist der Film auf einen sehr hohen Niveau. Mit einer sehr guten Schnitt, sehr guter Beleuchtung und dazu auch eine sehr starke Kameraführung hat. Außerdem spielt der Film geschickt mit einigen Filmgenres, als würde das kein Problem sein und das finde ich besonders Stark am Film.
Fazit: Parasite ist ein starker Film, welcher in jeden Punkt verdammt stark ist und dazu sehr schnell vergeht. Es ist Egal ob Handlung, Figuren oder Kameraführung, der Film macht es so unfassbar Stark. 10/10
1662. Yorum: Quickie Review
When film fans of every color and creed, rich and poor, famous and infamous, hype up a movie and say that it's the best movie they ever seen, usually it ends up being a load of bunk and you end up hating film fans for making you believe the hype in the first place. Not in this instance. This is one of those rare times where a hyped-up film actually lives up to those lofty expectations and the best part of all is the filmmaker who made this film also made 3 of the best genre films ever made. That's right, Bong Joon-ho made another masterpiece. The man who brought you The Host, Snowpiercer and Okja now brings this deliciously entertaining and very impactful darkly comic psychological thriller about the haves being invaded by the have-nots. The cash-strapped lower-class Kim family, consisting of patriarch Kim Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho), matriarch Kim Chung-sook (Chang Hyae-jin), daughter Kim Ki-jeong (Park So-dam) & son Kim Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik), become obsessed with the much wealthier Park family and they concoct a scheme to be employed by the family by posing as unrelated, highly qualified individuals. The Kim family ingratiate themselves into the lives of the Park family and enjoying life as part of the other half but all that changes when they get entangled in an unexpected incident and what happens next will lead to a series of bonkers and bloody events. Honestly, I wish I could say more but this is something that you have to see for yourself as this one is full of surprises and you'll want to see what they are so the only other things I can tell y'all is that the performances are spectacular, the visuals are dazzling, the tones are a true high-wire act and the finale is just wild. Bong Joon-ho does it again with Parasite, an absolute must-see of the past decade and if you haven't seen it, now's the time to see what this film is all about. Unlike the abysmally hollow Joker, THIS (along with The Irishman and Once Upon a Time....in Hollywood) is the true awards season contender that's worth talking about.
1663. Yorum: “If you make a plan life never turns out that way”
Featured Lists:
-2019 Ranked
-Best Picture Winners Ranked
I’ve seen all the praise this has received across audiences and critics alike. So naturally, I expected this to be very good. I was still blown away. My jaw dropped probably five or six times in awe of what I was watching. A very simple story that just throws you for a turn each and every moment. Just when you think it’s going one way, it keeps you on your feet.
The best part collectively is exactly what I just mentioned, something happens seemingly every scene. They do a great job of not even foreshadowing, but bringing things back that you may have noticed earlier. Little, subtle details that make a big difference.
The clear best scene is the homeless man in the basement and how he eventually goes on a psycho rampage at the party. This was unlike anything I’ve seen before, as I’m still shook from this scene. That was so chaotic and bold it was amazing. My only real issue is that amidst the chaos, the father stabs Mr. Park, I just didn’t like that. Seemed unnecessary and Parks wasn’t the man responsible in that scenario. Either way, this scene is still fantastic.
This movie is simply brilliant. The subtle details that they bring back, the unique story, and just the direction, it all seemed so perfect. This movie proves it’s worth on so many occasions and is nothing short of brilliant. This is absolutely a must watch movie.

Rating: A
Recommend?: ✅
1664. Yorum: 
1665. Yorum: Even better the second time around!
1666. Yorum: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
I just rewatched it and wow, the devil is in the details and Parasite excels at this. It feels so satisfying to re-watch this movie and catching all the details I wasn't able to see the first time.
That ending, so powerful.
Prior review.
1667. Yorum: Absolutely immaculate. The best cinematic experience of the year. The comedy, the suspense, and the drama, everything lands! Everything. Not a single line of dialogue or performance was off in the slightest, and every frame felt necessary. Thorough and masterfully crafted, a classic.
1668. Yorum: Well, yesterday was an interesting day. After work, I went to the movies and watched a really great foreign film, that might have just entered in my favorite films from 2019! I’m talking about the most talked about film from director Bong Joon-Ho, Parasite!
Parasite follows a young boy from a poor family who begins tutoring a young girl from a wealthy family. Soon, this gives the boy’s family motivation to take interest in the rich family by working for them, and this family doesn’t know they’re being scammed. But something unexpected happens to the poor family and their lives will never be the same.
Wow. Just wow! This film was something I never expected! Parasite was truly a great film that never came from Hollywood, and manages to show what classism is. I’ll have to say this is better than what Jordan Peele did with Us. Now I’m not saying Us wasn’t ineffective, but Bong Joon-Ho did it better. His uses of metaphors, symbolism, and ambiguities were fantastic in this film! I’m actually thinking of going to see it again this weekend, just because it’s a really great foreign film from 2019.
The acting from the cast were outstanding! The ones who play the poor family were very smart into conning this wealthy family. And the ones who play the wealthy family were so naive into letting them in and work for them as their plan goes along perfectly. The way the characters were portrayed and designed was something I’ve never seen in a film before!
The screenplay and directing were so artistically flawless! The script was well written with every smoothly line delivered, as if these characters are real people. I also love that Joon-Ho moves the camera and focuses it on poverty, desperation, and selfishness. I like the points that were shown on both of these people are good people. But the line blurs and makes it go back and forth on sympathizing for both of them.
I believe Parasite will get nominated for several Oscars, including Best Picture, Original Screenplay, and Foreign Language Film. And this isn’t like Roma. This film mixes one genre to another! From comedy, to drama, suspense, and tragedy. There’s literally nothing else I can say about it, it’s just indescribable! I can’t wait to see it again soon!
I’m giving Parasite 5 stars!
1669. Yorum: Man, the new movie by the guy who directed Snowpiercer is really picking up steam!
…get it? Picking up steam? Because it’s from the same director who did Snowpiercer? The movie about the train that never stops? And trains run on steam? And-
Oh never mind…
If I had to guess, I’d say that Parasite is a very different kind of movie than what most ‘Murican audiences will expect from Bong Joon-ho. While he’s done drama before - Barking Dogs Never Bite and Mother - over here, his most popular films are his overt genre pieces. Films like The Host, his take on Godzilla, Okja, which is more fantasy than anything, or the aforementioned Snowpiercer, which is all about a magical train that goes around and around the world, forever and ever…suffice it to say, I can easily imagine a scenario in which someone goes into a movie called Parasite, knowing it’s by the guy who made all those films, expecting another dip into sci-fi and horror, and getting what appears to be a straight-up drama instead. I mean, there are parasites in this movie…but they’re all very human.
Parasite has to do with a downtrodden, out-of-work family of four. We see in the opening scene that they in such squalor that, when a fumigation crew starts dusting the street outside, they decide to leave the window open to get rid of their roach problem. For free! Things take an interesting turn, however, when a friend of Ki-woo - the son in the family - asks him to fill in as a tutor to the daughter of a rich family. Ki-woo obliges, but soon into his first day he senses an opening for his sister, Ki-jeong, to join him as an art tutor for the rich son. Never mind that she doesn’t know the first thing about art, and doesn’t have any credentials; nothing a bit of light forgery can’t fix. Once she’s there, though, she starts looking for positions for her parents. The other jobs around the household are already taken by other people, but if something were to happen to them…
Doesn’t sound much like Snowpiercer, does it? But make no mistake; Parasite comes from the same mind. For one thing, despite all appearances, it’s very fluid, genre-wise. It defies simple characterization, which I always like (I’m generally of the opinion that genre restrictions are stupid). It begins as a satire, before hardening into straight drama, then back into comedy, before elements of horror start to creep in, and then…I’d better not say. But Bong Joon-ho is always in complete control; I never felt that he was just throwing whatever he wanted at the wall, and seeing what stuck. There was a purpose to the tonal shifts, and the end result was a film experience that I couldn’t predict the end of, or even the next scene of.
But the main clue that this is a Bong Joon-ho picture is the recurring theme of class warfare. I’m bringing up Snowpiercer a lot in this review, and there’s a reason for that, beyond the fact that I love it. Snowpiercer isn’t just a movie about a train endlessly circling a desolate, frozen earth; it’s a movie about the way the train divides its passengers into different cars based on their wealth and social status, and the eventual armed revolution by the have-nots against the haves.
Parasite isn’t as fantastical as Snowpiercer, or even Okja, but it absolutely deals with the same themes. Weirdly, Parasite serves as a kind of spiritual relative to Jordan Peele’s Us from earlier this year. They’re both comedy-drama-horror hybrids that start out as one thing, before slowly transitioning into a parable about the lengths the disenfranchised will go, not only to survive, but to get back what they think they’re owed. There’s something almost supernatural about the way the family systematically attaches themselves to the rich family; watching them at work, they almost could be seen as the tethered.
It works, though, for two main reasons. The first, it’s never moralistic, or heavy-handed. The themes are right there, but you do have to work for them. The social satire of the movie mostly comes up through contrast; for instance, when there’s a downpour about midway through the movie, the poor family (I refer to them as such because we never get any last names) has to worry about their little hovel flooding. The rich family, by contrast, spend the whole day post-flood commenting on how lovely their wet grass looks, which irritates the poor family to no end.
The second reason is much simpler; it’s just wildly entertaining. There are sequences so brilliantly put together, the audience I saw this with was simultaneously screaming and in stitches. This is a prime example of a film that deals with heady subjects dead on, while still maintaining a high entertainment value. There's one sequence in particular that could be pulled straight out of a Hitchcock film made at his prime.
With beautiful imagery (cinematography provided by Hong Kyung-pyo, who just last year shot Burning, one of the very best films of 2018, and the past decade), a great, subtle script, and a wonderful sense of controlled escalation, I can safely say that Parasite lived up to the hype.
1670. Yorum: ¿Quién mejor que un coreano para hablar sobre la lucha de clases? Claro, ellos son los que en estos últimos años están siendo apresados por una situación socioeconómica algo complicada –por no decir bárbara– y esto es algo que la nueva ola surcoreana ha estado llevando a la pantalla desde hace tiempo, hasta Burning, un thriller alejado de ese ámbito, tenía su pequeña aportación al tema.
Somos metidos otra vez a ese viaje de la marginalidad, del recelo; Bong Joon-ho nos lleva de la mano a una tragicomedia que constantemente va mutando como si fuese un experimento, una mezcla de químicos que logran un humor ácido. No te tiran pullas, sino que directamente son cuchillos, humillando ambos bandos por igual, aquí nadie se salva.
El rico es tonto, es ingenuo; tiene necesidades que el pobre trabaja para satisfacer. Justamente el pobre depende del sueldo y trabajo que le da el rico. Todo es un bucle que Parasite conoce, no trata de remendar nada, sino mostrar las fallas para lograr una especie de desagüe donde puedan botar la seriedad del tema, por ello los chistes son tan efectivos. Pero lo que más me gusta es como poco a poco eso va volviendo a mutar siendo más oscuro y maquiavélico. Llevando la metáfora hasta un punto casi que literal.
Todo te lo puedes tomar como una broma, pero lo que no se puede negar es que todas las injusticias son así de absurdas como verdaderas. Por eso es que todos están a merced de la película, porque es un escape sumamente divertido de una realidad miserable.
¿Ahora solo nos queda seguir sintiéndonos parásitos o acaso debemos hacer algo para cambiar eso? ¿Ustedes qué creen?
1671. Yorum: This is the movie Bong has been circling his entire career.
Titillatingly tip-toeing tonality has long-been one of his greatest strengths as a filmmaker. That ability to not simply make a serious scene followed by a funny one, but rather to inject both humor and dramatic stakes into the same moment. Eschewing the conventional confines of genre and instead making films with singular identities. The masterstroke here is taking his usually expansive storytelling style and distilling it into a confined space. This creates a tactile anxiety that bumps up the urgency on every seemingly minor moment. You can never see the gears turning, no time is wasted trying to fill in the corners.
There is a bit of the "eat the rich" mentality present, though the film decides to dig beneath this and into the inert nature of the class structure of Korea. That the Kim's are a mere walking distance from the home of the Park's this entirely other world, speaks to how much elevated status feels so close yet out of reach for those at the bottom. This idea of the two worlds being so close but so clearly separated is echoed later with the door to the basement.
This inability to escape is enforced with two major moments in the film: when Moon-gwang (the former housekeeper) is kicked violently down the stairs of that hallway trying to escape. On the metaphorical level her attempt at making that leap is virulently denied. The same can be said for the bigger scale attempt at financial mobility the entire Kim family makes when they try to slink their way into the Park household. Their house is flooded, marking clear punishment for their efforts. There's the additional layer of the lower class cannibalizing each other, both when Chung-sook kicks the aforementioned former housekeeper down the stairs and also when Moon-gwang's basement-swelling husband causes the horrific scene at the birthday party that exposes the entire operation of the Kim's.
The unmistakable verve Bong maintains behind the camera permeates every frame of the film. How he glides across the Park house, utilizing brilliant multi-dimensional shots that display multiple planes of actions happening simultaneously, is unreal. Each character navigates the confines of the Park house with their unique sensibility, many of them creeping along the staircase to surreptitiously gleaning information that may serve them individually. The shot of the birthday party in full swing and a knife-wielding Geun-sae stalking his way forward towards it is unendingly haunting. The same can be said for Da-song eating his cake and seeing the horrifying eyes emerge from the basement door staircase. The most enduring image though, one that will remain burnished into my memory indelibly, is Ki-jeong smoking the cigarette while sitting on the overflowing toiler in their flooding apartment. The solace she takes in that moment is purely sublime.
A less thoughtful version of this might paint these people in a simpler light: The Park's as being the classically rude and snobby rich, the Kim's being totally wholesome lower class people trying to make it by. That they both occupy space in the gray area of morality makes for a much more engaging experience. Not letting either off the hook enhances the realities both families face. Who the title of the film even refers to is often put into question- is it about action or participation in a virus-like economic world that takes without giving back.
This might be the funniest film of the year. It might be the scariest. It's probably simpler: it's both. Unrelenting in how engaging it remains throughout, this is the essence of filmmaking. The best film I've seen in a long time, and one I know I'll continue to get more out of for years to come.
1672. Yorum: This was a perfect film for about the first hour. Amazing characters and gorgeous cinematography. The tone shift was a bit jarring for about twenty minutes, but overall the second half worked. 
Joon-ho is so locked in at this point. There were about thirty gorgeous shots-none of which felt showy or superfluous. He’s also able to establish the family dynamic in what seems like about two minutes. 
Can’t wait to see what he does next!

Bong Joon-ho Ranked
1673. Yorum: If you can see the sun reflecting on a blown away hair from a peach, then you know there is a cinematographer who mastered his art (or someone in the CGI-department ;-).
Not my favorite of the directors films but still a masterpiece. Because of the lack of the fantastic it is more near the "surface" and less subtile than some of his other movies.
Can't remember laughing loud on this high level of filmmaking like i did watching this movie.
1674. Yorum: Parasite: or how to eat the rich and pay for it
Bong Joon-ho's Parasite begins with a window. A street fumigator sprays thick clouds of pesticide across the street and the Kims decide to leave the dingy window to their cramped hovel ajar for free pest control. Later, as Ki-woo searches for an elusive scalped wi-fi signal to check the family Whatsapp account for job prospects, he wanders the apartment, eventually cramped in a spot within arms reach of the family toilet. The Kims lives are ones distinctly lacking comfort.
So, when an old friend stops by and offers Ki-woo his position as an English tutor for the eldest child of a rich family, he takes the offer. Slowly, each of the Kims lands a job - through less than honest means - in the same household. And all is well...until they discover a hidden passage in the luxurious home.
Parasite is, in many ways, the movie I wished Jordan Peele's Us was. It's smart, incisive, and supremely suspenseful - at points Bong's latest feels like an honest-to-God horror picture, with heart-in-your-throat moments that work better than most movies, and certainly Peele's which had so many tantalizingly interesting threads, but couldn't seem to weave them together into anything resembling a cohesive tapestry. But, Parasite's best asset is its comedy. Bong knows how to concoct the most nail-biting of scenarios and he uses the situational comedy of the Kims' ludicrous predicament as a release valve to empty scenes of tension just before they've run their course. And there are some genuinely great slapstick moments as characters dart in and out of sight, ducking under tables, hiding behind beds, and creeping into cellars to avoid the eminently ignorant gaze of the rich family.
In Parasite's climactic moment, an eruptive fountain of repressed class drama explodes with giallo-like fervor. Knives are drawn, parties are crashed, and nothing is ever the same. It's a hell of a scene, both riotously funny in the same dark way that Tarantino's Once Upon a Time in Hollywood's climactic scene is and entirely thematic. There's a lot to unpack here and doing so would probably spoil the film's best surprises. But, suffice it to say that the ending ties the film's thematic threads together in some truly compelling ways.
Go see this movie. It's gorgeous, with slick wipes and fades that had me gleefully smiling like a drunken idiot. It's brimming with standout performances, especially the excellent Yeo-jeong Jo, who owns the stereotype of the Type-A suburban mom and never breaks the mold, but inhabits it so entertainingly that it works from tip to toe. And it's got a wonderfully Hermann-esque score reminiscent of those in Hitchcock's best work.
Parasite is currently my favorite new 2019 release and my second favorite of the year behind Apocalypse Now Final Cut.
1675. Yorum: ki-jeong and ki-woo in unison: jessica, only child, from illinois, chicago. i'm a classmate of your cousin
me in the theater: 66.media.tumblr.com/da2fe1c9b2da6b2e72aedc849f359a8f/tumblr_pzlry04JtV1qb78qno1_400.gifv
1676. Yorum: the most meticulous and layered film i’ve seen in a WHILE. everyone is desperate for their chance to stand in the sunlight.
all you’ll have to do is walk up the stairs. 
1677. Yorum: 
1678. Yorum: after three watches I’ve decided this is the go-to sleepover film
1679. Yorum: Words can’t even describe how fantastic this movie is. I was laughing during the first third, very stressed and panicky during the second and just completely mesmerized during the finale. Just simply amazing and my favorite movie of the year so far! 
Also my alma mater Illinois State University got a shoutout during this so I was completely sold by that point!
1680. Yorum: best movie of the year
1681. Yorum: Still perfect
1682. Yorum: Bong joon-ho is a genius.
1683. Yorum: pissed out of my ass and shitted out of my cock
1684. Yorum: Still shocked that a movie about class struggle did so well in the US.
Could it be because it’s set elsewhere ?
1685. Yorum: It's been a while since I've seen this movie, so I decided to rewatch it and give my thoughts. Parasite is simply genius and a masterpiece. Following the lower class Kim family as they infiltrate a wealthy family's household by posing as qualified workers, this film deserves all the hype and praise it has gotten. It honestly touches every genre and was able to do it so elegantly, ranging from moments of pure comedy to times of tragedy. Bong Joon-Ho's direction and storytelling here keeps us engaged from start to finish, providing one of the most original screenplays to hit theaters in years. I believe this solidified him as one of the best directors of our generation, and for good reason. I also thought the actors did a great job displaying their characters motivations throughout the movie. Overall, it's great to see a foreign film make such an impact on the film industry.
Some parts may be slightly unrealistic, but besides that this movie is near perfect and should be seen by everyone at least once.
1686. Yorum: 93
Revisiting this is like revisiting a violent memory. Hits so fucking hard. Been a couple years since I’ve seen this last and even knowing all the twists and turns this takes, it feels like the first time. Basking in Bong’s twisted schemes is unlike anything.
“I’m deadly serious.”
1687. Yorum: I first watched Parasite about a year and a half ago, when I knew nothing about films. Even then I remember absolutely loving it and it having a big impact on me, but since then films have become my passion after my friend *cough cough Melody* introduced me to letterboxd. Anyway, I was in the mood to rewatch this today and HOLY FUCK. I truly can't sing its praises highly enough. Parasite doesn't really fit into any one genre, and it's truly unique in terms of its plot and the way it shows class divide. The cinematography and performances are next level, and the pacing is perfect. The birthday party scene is in a league of its own. But I don't need to explain all this, everyone knows.
Parasite is without question one of the greatest films of all time.
1688. Yorum: I don’t think this merits being the highest rated film on this app and this isn’t even Bong’s best film, however this is still a damn sharp cinematic exercise. Down the road I see this having the same iconic status as something like Pulp Fiction in the cinematic/pop culture sphere. With that you’re also going to see this deemed “overrated” more and more due to said status. 
Some details that I appreciate and stood out most this time around...One of the best and most telling shots is Da-song’s reflection captured in natural golden light. Bong uses multiple similar shots to emphasize the Kim’s infiltration is still temporary, they are simply the ghost or “reflection” of the Park’s status waiting to be replaced. Another pinnacle moment occurs when the Park duo becomes intimate on the couch as the Kim’s lay with baited breath under the central decor of the room. Even though they’ve made their way in and commandeered the home they still are lower than the Parks even if if by a few physical feet. Their efforts are still somehow in vain as the system looks to oppress them from every imaginable angle. 
One more detail that strikes a note is the Park’s living room which contains a giant panoramic window which is actually scaled to the dimensions of the 2:39:1 cinematic aspect ratio. They look out on their expansive property and wealth the way you would look at and gaze at the television. Oppositely the Kim’s place of dwelling is situated to give the most unflattering view of the city streets where there is seemingly no privacy, a luxury they simply cannot afford. 
The cacophonous finale seems even more absurd and far fetched to a degree in this rewatch but drives home a harsh reality. In the end a sense of false hope is the real parasite that worms its way into the head of Ki-woo’s brain also a direct result of the crazed product of isolation and class differentials. This is Bong’s icy fucking cold splash of water to the face.
1689. Yorum: Crimes against humanity were committed when I thought this movie was anything less then a 4.
1690. Yorum: 
1691. Yorum: Spoilers are there
Good films help me understand myself and the world better. I think Parasite has helped me understand the word CLASS and my behavior in terms of class better. Of course simple observation, Marxian ideas, and other films which depict poor life give you some understanding. But the way the smell of the poor as portrayed in this film and the important role that smell plays in the conclusion of the film, was an amazing explanation of class conflict. It tells me that some of my own private behavior if observed by a struggling poor person, can easily lead to at least physical harm, if that person is already enraged about the economic divide. I am not saying I feel gulity for that behavior. That's part of my own struggles. But that I understand how such behavior of mine look through the prism of class. I knew that already to an extent, but this movie made that realization more explicit.
It would be fun to deconstruct Parasite. Out of the two classes portrayed in the film who are more likely to see Parasite and appreciate it? Who are more likely to appreciate the director and crown the movie with awards? Lol (Not because poor can't appreciate great art, but they lack the time, energy and resources to do it). So through deconstruction it is possible to argue that Parasite is an upper class product, made for the intellectual pleasure of the upper class, using the struggles of poor as a story ingredient. An indirect exploitation of the poor to be precise.
That whole last paragraph was a joke. I don't actually mean it, though it is true.
Its a really great film. It deserves all the awards it got. Bong Joon-ho proved again why he is one of the best writer/director working in the world today. It also proved once again the greatness of South Korean cinema.
1692. Yorum: Obvio que tenía altas expectativas pero las superó, no por nada ganó el Oscar a mejor película. Amé los simbolismos, esos planos que marcan las diferencias entre las familias, cómo las escenas de mayor tensión se acompañan con música clásica, las actuaciones impecables, todo. De alguna forma logras empatizar con los personajes por más que sabés que lo que hacen está mal, te tiene a mil por hora en todo momento. Si pudiera ponerle más estrellas lo haría.
1693. Yorum: Everyone knows what and how good “Parasite” is. Explaining how and why Parasite succeeds so well in what it’s trying to do is a waste of time by now. The technical aspects of the film are as perfect as they can get. Clean camera movement that also changes it’s character in the different locations, clean editing and *wonderful* lighting. The production design is also perfect and is a character itself.
Mixing comedy, drama, thriller and *even* horror. Parasite seems like a miracle of a film. Rising tension with it’s wonderful score and camera work, this film is incredibly intense at one point that I had to hold my breath.
But even though I praise this film as much as most people I don’t *love* it as much as most people. I don’t like one certain sequence near the end, everyone who has seen the film *knows* exactly what sequence I mean. The sequence itself, great - all good. But the character decisions feels very rushed. There was a build up for the certain character, but I don’t think it really worked or at least it didn’t convince me. Bong Joon-ho himself said that he wanted to put as many surprises into this film as he could in one interview and I think he put one or two too many twists into this film at the end.
Overall, after a rewatch, I finally went from respecting it’s craft into loving it. So many scenes, details and lines are so important to the film, even later on and some details I didn’t even catch on first viewing. It’s such a wonderful movie, but y’all know that
1694. Yorum: Parasite ist ein unglaubliches Erlebnis. Ich habe noch nie einen Film erlebt, der so leichtfüßig zwischen den Genres wechselt, trotzdem in jeder Tonlage perfekt sitzt, tonal so anders endet, als er begonnen hat und dabei mal einfach so in seiner Laufzeit alle denkbaren Emotionen abruft.
Ich wusste nichts über die Handlung und genauso sollte man dieses südkoreanische Meisterwerk auch sehen. Denn so wurde ich immer wieder mit- und hin und her gerissen. Zwischen Leichtigkeit, schwarzem Humor, Tragik, Gesellschaftskritik und Drama. Dazu ist Parasite noch wunderbar gefilmt, intelligent geschrieben und bietet spannende Symbolik und viele Interpretationsmöglichkeiten an.
Dabei ergreift Parasite nie Partei oder hebt den Zeigefinger, sondern bringt das Gehirn des Zuschauers dazu sich selbst Gedanken zu machen. So ist der Film selbst ein Parasit, der sich in meinen Gedanken festgesetzt hat und mich wahrscheinlich noch lange beschäftigen wird.
Bong Joon-ho hat wirklich ein kleines Meisterstück geschaffen. Der Oscar für den besten Film könnte in diesem Jahr wirklich nach Südkorea gehen. Es wäre wahrhaft verdient.
1695. Yorum: Insuportável.
Um diretor que sabe filmar, tem em mãos um dos atores mais legais, que teve oportunidades e fez esse tipo de escolha. Lamentável.
1696. Yorum: This is a social horror movie. It’s funny, honest, human, tragic, and ultimately such a horrific look at systemic oppression and class divisions and the lengths made to either overcome them or keep them in check. It crosses linguistic and geographic borders, and lands with a punch in the gut.
1697. Yorum: Really glad that I was able to see one of the best films of the decade before the decade ends in literally a day.
1698. Yorum: Mr.Kim just wanted people to accept his distinct odor. Basically, what this film boils down to in the end.
1699. Yorum: 2019 Ranked
Seen in Theaters
Where does one even begin? Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is a dense, yet accessible, and richly entertaining film that is so many things at once. It is bleakly funny, thrilling, dramatic, and impeccably smart as it unravels all of the aspects of class. From the semi-basement that the Kim family lives in to the elegant home of Park family, Parasite’s precise design and attention-to-detail shines through. I confess that I was hesitant to watch Parasite, fearing I would go against the grain here. Until now, Bong Joon-ho’s films had been good, but lacking for me. The Host being the closest to being fully successful, but even Memories of Murder or Okja were strong but left me cold in unexpected ways. Snowpiercer, similarly, disappointed me. Yet, in Parasite, I find what I have been looking for: a Bong Joon-ho film that I loved.
Bong’s rage is felt through every frame, showing the absurdity of the Kim family life as they reach high into their semi-basement to find a phone signal. Outside, they see the bars and the bright lights, occasionally having to fend off a drunk who tries to pee on their house. Their cramped quarters helps them bond, but they are forgotten and ignored by the world in this home. Thus, when Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) is offered the chance to tutor a rich girl, he jumps on the chance. It is immediately clear that the Park family is vastly different. Perhaps Choi yeon-gyo (Cho Yeo-jeong) being a bit “simple” and easy to trick is a handicap for the Park’s, but their home shows none of this flaw. Bong joon-ho juxtaposes the Kim family window view with that of the Park’s, showing the pristine landscaped yard and privacy that is so far removed from the Kim’s. Set high up in the town, one must travel all the way down and descend into the city before they even come up near the low-lying Kim home. As in Snowpiercer, Bong Joon-ho uses this structure to mirror society’s hierarchical class structure and pays great attention to every element of the set and what it says about the families. The gulf between the two is massive, a key source of appalled outrage that courses through Parasite.
Of course, as the title suggests, there is some entity is feeding off of another. One may be tricked into thinking it is the Kim’s. After all, Ki-woo gets a job as a math tutor to Park Da-hye (Jung Ji-so), starting a romance with her. He manages to get his sister Ki-jeong (Park So-dam) in as an art tutor to young and rambunctious Park Da-song (Jung Hyun-joon). From there, his plan finds his father Kim Ki-taek (Song Kang-ho) replacing the Park’s present driver and his mother Kim Chung-sook (Jang Hye-jin) replacing the Park’s housekeeper. Their plan is often malicious, setting up the driver and housekeeper to be fired while having uncertain goals beyond feeding off of the Park’s wealth to finance them getting out of the semi-basement. Yet, it is not the Kim’s who are the parasite. It is not even former housekeeper Gook Moon-gwang (Lee Jung-eun) and her husband who similarly fed off of the Park’s. Instead, it is Park’s. They feed off of the energy of their workers, having them at their beck and call, and then belittling them whenever they think they are not around. Their lack of respect speaks to this parasitic behavior, hoodwinking the Kim’s into thinking they have an ideal job while really just using them without any care for them as people. They are obsessed with ensuring none of their employees “cross the line” and mock their smell, writing it off as a grubby and grimy smell that one can usually only find on subways. It is awful to watch, a demonstration of the wickedness of the rich who have become so disconnected from the struggles of the common man that they have lost all empathy.
Yet, Bong Joon-ho is smart. He knows how the system works. Not only do the Kim’s get knocked back down after their brief climb to the top - despite the tantalizing possibility of wealth promised by a rock that should bring good luck - but they fight with the Gook’s. They attack one another quite violently, trying at first to hold their positions with the Park’s and then letting it all hang out as they seek revenge on one another for their various acts against each other. It is an astute commentary on how the rich often play spectator to a fight and battle they created the stage for. The poor are focused on one another, often missing the one who is truly to blame and instead focusing their energy on fighting those also in need. This is why the finale is so potent, finding Kim Ki-taek finally realizing who his true enemy is: a man who would put his needs above all else.
Visually, Parasite is stunning. The work of DP Hong Kyung-pyo is consistently excellent. An aerial shot as the Kim family floats down their flooded streets is perhaps the highlight, but the film’s usage of space is consistently impressive. A tilt down as they run back home through the storm and the usage of the entire depth of field throughout the film are further highlights. The latter is especially crucial in bringing to life the environments of the Park’s and Kim’s, allowing the full scale of the gulf in design to take hold for the audience. It is also crucial in crafting thrills and suspense with scenes of characters lurking in the foreground or with the ominous dark door to the basement looming ever-present in the background. In contrast, the close-ups during the film’s climax are well taken, focused in on Mr. Kim as he finally strikes out and on the attacks that happen in the Park backyard, creating a suitably intense and frightening sequence.
The film’s thrills cannot be understated with Parasite, as much as Bong Joon-ho uses it for social critique, being a tremendous genre work. The discovery of the basement, the thrill of the con, and the horrors lurking within the Park home all ensure that Parasite is an edge-of-your-seat thrill ride. Even the more typical scenes, such as the family trying to slip past the sleeping Park’s, come off brilliantly thanks to Bong Joon-ho’s keen sense of time and pacing as he never lets a moment last too long, instead wringing it for the exact of tension it can provide. Parasite is also wryly funny, unexpectedly so as it is so tense but the little bits of humor injected are a welcome respite from the tense atmosphere. It is actually one of the funnier films of 2019, never laugh-out-loud funny possessing an overarching oddness that proves quite hysterical.
Bong Joon-ho has made the film he has been building toward for years. A tense and thrilling examination of class, Parasite is one of the finer films of 2019. Sure to be one of the best international films of the decade, too, this great blend of thrills and black comedy is masterfully directed by Bong, an articulate and precise examination of its ideas and genre tropes. It is hard not to be impressed by the artistry here, but what lingers is the feeling of unease and absurdity that the film creates that make this one hard to shake once it ends.
1700. Yorum: i love amc a-list
1701. Yorum: they said we're gonna scam rich people for all their worth and you know what? mad respect to them for doing that
1702. Yorum: Directed by Bong Joon-ho, the film tells the story of two families, the wealthy Parks and the impoverished Kims, who become intertwined in a complex and suspenseful relationship.
The film explores the stark contrast between the lives of the rich and the poor, highlighting the systemic injustices and power dynamics that exist in society.
Parasite uses humor and irony to critique the superficiality and hypocrisy of the upper class, while also exposing the desperation and resilience of the lower class.
Overall, Parasite is a thought-provoking and entertaining film that offers a scathing commentary on contemporary society. It is a must-watch for fans of foreign cinema, dark comedy, and socially relevant films.
1703. Yorum: 
1704. Yorum: Somehow Parasite hits different in black and white. Like I was able to focus even more on its characters, performances, themes and plot this way, without the "distraction" of color. And it actually does look stunning in this version (not that it didn't in color though). However, it's still fully and entirely Parasite, so obviously this rewatch even further established its spot as one of my all time favorites, but it must be said that it's an entirely different experience. Different, but no less fantastic in any way.
1705. Yorum: HOLY SHIT DUDE.. like dont get me wrong its no kung fu panda 2, but still holy shit
1706. Yorum: I kept rewatching this and hoping for different outcomes. this movie is tragically sad
1707. Yorum: This is so metaphorical 
I can’t stand people who cross the line 
It’s all fun and games till the park family return home from camping !! Like i just sit there watching this movie with a smile on my face enjoying the devious and fucked up manipulations of the family …  looking for all the lines and beautiful cinematography … the 8 million flights of stairs they climb up and down in this thing. And then the parks come home from camping and lthe rest of the movie is just a knot of tension that climaxes into a bloody disaster. I think I appreciated this better the second time away from the hype enjoying the story and all of the metaphors even better..  the night before the disaster they are literally living in shit … it’s perfect ..
1708. Yorum: Sometimes the peach montage just hits different I don’t know what to tell you.
1709. Yorum: Ohhhhhh Jessica NICE
"I've watched better." - Susan.
When asked which movies are better, here's the list my mother text me
"I Saw The Devil, The Poughkeepsie Tapes, Lucy, The Taking of Deborah Logan, Snowtown, Deliver Us from Evil and Exorcism at the End (?Think she means The Last Exorcism?)"
1710. Yorum: i wonder how Bong Joon Ho feels knowing that he made the greatest film ever
1711. Yorum: Metaphorical
1712. Yorum: One of the best films you will ever see. Dark comedy thriller that rewards multiple viewings. You find something new to appreciate, Whether it’s the remarkable cast or the unforgettable set, Parasite is one of the most unique films of the last 10 years. Despite not being in the language I speak it flows and dances like nothing I’ve ever watched.  it comments on class division in South Korea but everything can apply to any place in the world. Bongs masterpiece
1713. Yorum: RESPECT!
1714. Yorum: Watched on Blu-Ray
Since I already reviewed Parasite in detail a few weeks ago
boxd.it/ZiVzR
and I can't think of anything witty new (it still freaking slaps), here's a musical tip for a change, although admittedly the relation to the movie is only limited. Anyway, this is the first song that comes to my mind.
youtu.be/Jqw_45z0JWg
1715. Yorum: the heart never lies
1716. Yorum: 
1717. Yorum: Third time is the charm.
I've definitely been a fan since the minute I saw it, but I wasn't sold on joining the slew of 5/5s Parasite has gotten flooded with. I'm on board now. There are no diminishing returns with this movie. This viewing, I felt like I could really take in all the nuances, all the full circle narratives, and really chew on all of its metaphors. Seeing it in a theater with a bunch of old people who hadn't been inducted into the Bonghive yet definitely added to the experience. Masterpiece, no less.
1718. Yorum: BONGHIVE!
1719. Yorum: FOUR TIME ACADEMY AWARD WINNER PARASITE
1720. Yorum: BETTER THAN THE LAST BOY SCOUT WE’RE ALL GETTING FUCKING DRUNK TONIGHT #BONGHIVE
1721. Yorum: Yes.
1722. Yorum: i am genuinely speechless after finishing. this it’s so carefully and beautifully crafted, it’s one that every single person should see. many thoughts, heads full
1723. Yorum: the fact that joker is nominated alongside this for best picture is the biggest joke of the century.
1724. Yorum: dude, speechless for what this movie is
1725. Yorum: Parasite, a certain ambiguity to the title of this masterpiece, we're unsure which family is the parasitic one. Is the the family of frauds and imposters, the Kim's, or the family that relies on the help to facilitate their roles as parents, the Parks.
This genius premise is very obviously about class warfare but it's easy to overlook the simplicity of that notion all thanks to the complexity of it's rich and well-constructed outline. As this movie's first half introduces us to the struggling Kim's modest lives, it sends us on an extremely smooth chain of various events that slowly but surely infiltrate the Kim's into the household of the Parks, completely invading it from all of it's angles because there are as many Kim's as there are Park's. 
This movie begins by making us laugh at the shenanigans of the imposter family, but a sudden plot twists changes the entire dynamic of the film transforming it from a light-hearted satirical social commentary on class differences to a full-blown murderous thriller, and it is so captivating. Although the first half is thoroughly enjoyable and really funny, the second half is insanely dark, twisted and fascinating, none of the events are at any point predictable, this film will shock you with all of it's muchness, and you'll thank it for that.
The film's editing has to be one of my favorite technical aspects, mimicking the dynamic of each setting, the editing embodies the story in the greatest way possible, from a slow introduction to both families, to a heist-style montage during the slow infiltration, to the slow suspenseful editing when the story shifts entirely, the editing is so powerful, so is the rest of the film.
The acting is so honest and raw, the entire cast did a great job, but one actor struck out to me the most and that's Song Kang-Ho, his performance was phenomenal especially during the moments of humility his character had to endure at the hand of M. Park, which is why the ending of the film made so much sense to me, because it was the result of an accumulation of smaller moments of friction between the two.
This film deserves all of the awards it's been getting, and it definitely deserves to win best foreign at the Oscars! Here's hoping! 
The rumors are very true, Parasite may just be the best of 2019. I recommend this film to everyone reading this! Go watch it!
1726. Yorum: This is the kind of movie that it's inconceivable to think is playing somewhere around the clock because it seems like the showing you’re in is a singular event that cannot and will not ever be re-created. The film of the year. Maybe not the best, certainly not my favorite, but it so obviously is the film of 2019.
It takes on the extremely delicate issue of class politics in the least delicate fashion and with the most incendiary means available. There's no attempt to vilify the rich or lionize the poor, quite the opposite. The rich, while a bit nieve, are well-meaning, while the poor are vicious, almost animalistic creatures fighting one another in dingy basements for scraps. The house, a little diorama of modern capitalist life, which illustrates in no uncertain terms, what could and would happen if it's delicate ecosystem were to be disturbed.
So, what do we make of this? Is the great Bong Joon-Ho asking us to choose this uneasy peace, least the ghost of injustice rear its ugly, blood-smeared head from the basement? Are we really best left apart, segregated, separate and unequal? There's a huge amount of satire to help this all go down, but I can't help but be disturbed that this feels more like a warning against toppling systems of oppression. Which, at the very least, is a weird point to be making in a world where the costs of these systems is so apparent and catastrophic.
Politics aside, there’s obviously some breathtaking stuff here. I felt my mouth literally hanging open for long stretches, and could barely catch my breath scene to scene. But, I do think it ultimately topples under the weight of its huge ambitions. How naive I was hoping the two patriarchs from different worlds would rise up in their headdresses and together unwittingly save the day. Instead a bizarre, blood-soaked final act takes place to re-hammer every point that had already been made now in gruesome and disturbing fashion. As stunning a feat it is, I feel like Parasite ultimately overplays its hand and leaves a mixed political message.
Sometimes you just want to swat the brush out of the painter’s hand and shout, “it’s finished!”
1727. Yorum: I don't know what to write that it hasn't been written already. I expected something, which it happened, but not all of the *other things*. It's a beautiful film with not-so-hidden messages about how we're living these days. The rest, you already know.
1728. Yorum: It’s just so damn good
1729. Yorum: 
1730. Yorum: 10/10
My third watch.
Took a friend and, yeah, it's still a perfect film. More shocking, exhilarating, smart, and fresh than pretty much any movie I can think of. In some weird way, I feel like it came around at precisely the perfect time in my life. Give it all the Oscars, you cowards. And Bong Joon-ho should just be awarded with the entire world for making a movie this good.
1731. Yorum: showed it to my mom and she loved it...“how can a movie be this good? i’m speechless”
1732. Yorum: Every few times a year, there comes a film that you just want to show to the normies in your life and remind them that cinema can pack plenty of punches regardless of language or country. I saw this with some normies and we all swooned. Parasite is Bong hitting the bullseye of tone control. The masters make it look easy. This film is funny, it is thrilling, it is moving, all within the same sequence at times. I can't say enough about the soundtrack as well. The music turns it into a ballet. Bong should get nominated, the film should get nominated, and I would nominate Song Kang-ho too if I had any say.
1733. Yorum: 👍
1734. Yorum: Non est terminus which means there is no limit to perfection! 
Well, Socrates, then how you will explain this?
1735. Yorum: Zugegeben, ich war skeptisch, denn der gigantische Hype um Parasite kam mir spanisch (bzw koreanisch) vor. Zuletzt waren es "Burning" und "Shoplifters", die mich nicht mal ansatzweise so begeistern konnten, wie ich es erhofft hatte.
Aber es ist tatsächlich wahr. Parasite ist ein grandioser Film, der mich begeistert und überrascht hat. Geschmeidig inszeniert, gut gespielt, mit Witz, Charme, Biss, Spannung und einem Finale, das alle Register zieht. Es ist bemerkenswert in wie vielen Genres [praktisch allen] Bong Joon-ho hier wildert, aber nie den Fokus verliert und auch nicht das Gefühl aufkommen lässt, dass sein Film gerade auf der Stelle tritt.
Außerdem erstaunlich, wie viel "Parasite" mit Jordan Peele's "Us" gemeinsam hat. Das dürfte ein interessantes Double Feature abgeben.
1736. Yorum: Um. Fuck
1737. Yorum: Going into Parasite, I had tried to remain as blind as possible. I only knew the basic synopsis. I hadn’t read reviews. I hadn’t watched trailers, and when the preview played before First Love, I shut my eyes. However, I did hear the music during that preview, as it shifted from upbeat and whimsical to ominous to thrilling.
So if I had one expectation, it was to expect another tonal roller-coaster from Bong Joon-ho. And Parasite did not disappoint.
What can I even say about this, without depriving others of the same experience?
That few modern directors are as adept at juggling tone as Bong Joon-ho, and Parasite is his most deft showcase yet?
That the movie transcends genre classification with each elegant twist and turn?
That much like Us, the story is equally effective as class divide allegory and pitch-black-comic thriller?
That it has the heart and thematic bite of Shoplifters, the clockwork joy of Ocean’s Eleven, the escalating heart-in-throat tension of Panic Room, the off-kilter domestic unease of Moebius?
That every character and performance is a delight, every humorous moment lands, each act is a masterful construction of plotting and direction and razor-sharp script?
Maybe I’ll just say that Parasite is a cinematic tour de force: exuberant and electrifying, hilarious and harrowing, playful and poignant.
...Damn, I might just have to do a spoiler review too...
1738. Yorum: Initial Twitter thoughts: 
#VIFF2019 When basement dwellers “cross the line,” dare to be smelt & felt, not washed down the drain. The hilarity, violence; the simultaneous wryness & heartfelt emotion; the gut-punching class-rage that was Snowpiercer, & more. There’s nobody who does cinema like Bong.

Updated: My full review at Seattle Screen Scene.
1739. Yorum: There's nothing I can possibly say right now that hasn't been said about this, but Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is the one of the most exciting, riveting films of the year. There's an undeniable, striking beauty in its refusal to be confined to just one single genre. The most subdued, but also one of the most thought-provoking plays on expectations and morality in quite a while.
Gifts are often symbolic things, but the symbolism you give them is entirely subjective. Sometimes, a gift feels more like a curse, a burden even, rather than a promise of good faith. You'll have to carry them until it comes full circle.
1740. Yorum: A very wild and broad story that takes on the form of many times and genres. Parasite has a sense of heightened reality to it, the people and events don't quite seem to be registering as real, but the themes and anger they feel are certainly truthful.
While many films about class are easy to read as being solely about that (Burning's methodical take on class warfare springs to mind), Parasite simply weaves it in. Clearly, this is about an unemployed family going to great lengths to get jobs, but there's so much more to this that deepens it - just as there was in Burning. It's especially bonkers how fun some of it feels. It's like watching a heist movie with the tension and stakes turned up to 11. The family are intelligent and brilliant at manipulating. Later, it's almost unbearably sad. The transitions between these things and feelings are flawless, and I liked that the film uses certain cues to introduce negative turns that just boil more and more as they keep turning up.
Unfortunately you can't get as close to the characters as you'd want to, the film keeps everything at arm's length and some of the decision making is hard to run with, but it all still works.
Visually very impressive with great sound. The flashes of horror like the birthday cake scene were great and the mutually assured destruction at the end of the film is paralyzing to watch in a way I've not experienced in a while. Will definitely watch this again at some point.
1741. Yorum: bruh bruh there’s some kind of genius juice that Bong Joon Ho is drinking that we’re all oblivious to.

Sort of feels like the culmination of the past few years of Korean thrillers. Taking building blocks from The Handmaiden in its tone and twists, The Wailing in its social commentary, and even Bong’s own work for its visual sensibilities. 

Bong Hive 4eva
1742. Yorum: 
1743. Yorum: WATCHLIST. NOW. THIS IS GOING ON EVERYONES WATCHLIST IDC
best movies ive seen
1744. Yorum: Recommended By: Jayden boxd.it/61lIF
This is a film that has been on my watchlist for a long time. I have heard so many great things about it, on YouTube, on Letterboxd and so on. Now that I have finally seen it, it did not disappoint. The concepts of this film are very tense and exciting, the film takes some crazy twists and turns that were really compelling and I didn’t see coming. It’s hard for me to say that I connected with the characters throughout the whole runtime, but that’s part of a good crime film. I cared about the characters when things would get dicey but they were not the standout element of the film or the thing I enjoyed the most about it by any stretch. However, their arcs were well executed and I did like that aspect. This was intentional, but I felt conflicted with the characters and wasn’t necessarily rooting for anyone I was more hoping that everything would work out in the end. It’s a small thing that went a long way for me, I wanted to connect with the characters more like I clearly was supposed to even if they were written well. What I loved about this movie was the story, it is an intense, emotional, unpredictable and clever story revolving around class conflicts and the extreme lengths the main characters will go to for a better life. This is my first Bong Joon Ho film, I knew this was a good place to start because some scenes in this movie were some of the most thrilling I have seen in a while. The way the film slowly unravels was very effective and just made the story even better, the pacing was pretty much perfect. Overall, I loved it. Just like everyone else that has seen it, I’m glad that this wild and pretty unique movie has earned such universal acclaim and I am looking forward to eventually watching more of Bong Joon Ho’s films because if the others are anything like this his vision is very interesting to me. 
I hope you all enjoyed the review! Please check out the link to a list this film is on as well as the links to my priority watchlist and St Jude’s Facebook page if you are interested. God Bless and I will see you in the next review ✌️
Movies and Series Watched in 2024 
boxd.it/sRPkK
Priority Watchlist/Watching and Reviewing Soon
boxd.it/wugQm
St Jude’s Children’s Research Hospital 
www.facebook.com/stjude?mibextid=JRoKGi
1745. Yorum: Yeah Parasite is still one of the greatest films ever made. Is it even worth writing about? 🤔 Eh...
In many ways a culmination of Bong's work up to now. Each individual element almost traces a direct line back to a prior film and as with most of his work, he tackles class disparity & poverty but the approach is ever so *slightly* more mature here
While there's clearly still no love for the mega-rich, the Park family aren't portrayed as evil caricatures. Instead their only "crime" is in possessing an apathy that can only come from a place of privilege. Juxtaposed against the underprivileged Kim family who extort the Parks with callous entitlement, we see that everyone here sucks but no individual is to blame... Our situations are all the result of the same flawed systems. He throws it out there without being so bold as to provide a solution, just wallowing in the bleakness of it all with enough goofs to keep you going. Cheers👍
Hard pivot! Sang Kang-Ho... dude! He just continues to prove himself as one of the greatest actors working today. Deep into the film it's revealed that his character stinks and his performance as a stinky man is so authentic that there isn't a second of doubt. That's a true thespian 🤌
Bong's direction is also like a fine wine (I wouldn't know) only getting better with age. The meticulous framing. The blocking. There's so much here but I don't want to type forever. When a film gets me to audibly yell about how good it is while I'm watching it you KNOW it's special 🙏🙏 Masterpiece
1746. Yorum: esse filme me surpreende smp q eu revejo. Masterpiece
1747. Yorum: i love the fact we just collectively agree that this movie doesn't deserve anything below 5 stars
1748. Yorum: Filme base da primeira aula de Maio do Clube do Leão!
1749. Yorum: After the big Best Picture win that Parasite rightfully earned about a week ago, it felt right to revisit it and rightfully add it to my home collection as soon as possible, AKA whenever the hell Jeff Bezos decides to deliver it to my house. While I jumped the gun on doing so, as the Criterion Collection announced it would be added to their prestigious library exactly one day after I ordered my copy (Hmmm, not sure how I'm gonna recoup that $20 back. Ah well), it didn't feel right having to wait longer than necessary in revisiting what may very well be Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece and finally admit that even with the uncomfortably real strengths of Marriage Story, this was the one that deserved it most of all as genuinely, 100%, the best film of the entire year (I mean, between the two it was neck-and-neck and either one would've pleased me, sooo)
One reason that its win felt so special was because it finally proved the Best Picture really could go towards any film, regardless of country, as long as it was the best (I mean, granted, we've had some clunkers of winners like [INSERT JOKE HERE]). Out of the 563 films nominated for Best Picture, only twelve are productions outside of the USA. Sure, stuff like Cries and Whispers and Roma earned a nomination, and we have a category specifically to make sure we don't leave international films entirely in the dust, but our 'MURICA FEVER prevented plenty of well-deserving, non-US films from having a seat at the table in the category everyone remembers. This film's win ensured that people would continue to talk about a film from outside the United States, and potentially open the floodgates for more art to be recognized by one of the biggest award shows, and finally jump over that one-inch barrier once and for all (as for the people that weren't happy about this, well they tend to lead pretty sad lives anyway).
But yes this is still an absolute masterpiece from Bong and it's miraculous just how much Bong is able to make his message on the issues of class divide obvious without detracting from a impeccably-crafted thriller that uses the rambunctiousness of life as an assistant to the laughs and chills from the film, but also as a driving theme. It holds several hidden details that I'm sure still partially elude me even after this revisit, like the "Jessica jingle" being to the tune of "Dokdo is Our Land", a famous song detailing land dispute between Japan and Korea, much like the Kims integration into the Parks' house to the point that they assert they live the same life of luxury (a concept also briefly alluded to when Mrs. Park mentions the Battle of Hansan Island, another Japan-Korea conflict, in relation to how tables should be set up, diluting the Korean victory for the sake of party decoration). Several lines that seem like throwaway lines come back to influence how scenes will turn out, proving the thought and effort that went into the screenplay but also ensuring that its replay value causes no decay on the film's quality ("He would skitter away like a little cockroach.", "I learned a lot as a Scout").
I noted in my original review how Bong tactfully approaches bringing the concept of social divide in a complex, yet understandable way. Both rich and poor are equal in their affection, self-absorbed flaws and parasitical ways, and yet it is only the economic divide that separates the two sides, differing in survival methods. Such ripe themes on social inequality is ripe for many to specify and relegate to narrower ideas, but what makes Parasite truly special is how universal it is. Bong never hides the idea behind any fraudulent emotions and is able to keep his motifs broad and clear even as his plot piles on crazy upon crazy. It's why South Korea loved it, it's why America loved it, it's why France and its multicultural jury loved it, and it's especially why over half of Letterboxd users from around the world adored it. The deep fear and anxiety in trying to live a life free of economic worry is something anyone can relate to, and learning to recognize that creating a plan to pinpoint our next steps in life is foolish and will inevitably fail is something that I'm sure has been a roadblock towards any of us the least bit ambitious and hopeful of the future. This is a film that will, in fact, go down as one of the greatest and is no doubt inspiring future filmmakers in the same way Martin Scorsese's films inspired Bong Joon-ho to make films like this, and that's something I think will can all (say it with me now) Respect!
1750. Yorum: "Damn you, Parasite," I feel like grumbling. "Why did you have to go and win all those Oscars? Thanks to you, we no longer have the right to complain about the Academy." But I assume this is just what happens when a film comes out that is so good it has the power to bring decades-old reservations crashing down in ruin, possibly never to be rebuilt. Who can say? It's never happened before.
Bong Joon-ho remains a director in whose work I'm ill-versed. Between this and Okja, what's clear to me is that he likes to take social issues that plague modern society, be they out-of-control farming or widening economic disparities, and give them his own spin, with the result that they always feel like something more than just satire. To describe his approach as a tonal high-wire act, particularly in the case of Parasite, is too simple; it downplays the extent to which the viewer's experience of the film is in-the-moment, ever-changing and relentlessly unpredictable, not only in terms of the feel of the film but in terms of the direction of its story. I walked out of Parasite dazzled by the lack of resemblance between the film I'd just left and the one I'd gone into.
The film, set in modern-day Seoul, opens by introducing us to the Kims: father Ki-taek, mother Chung-sook, son Ki-woo and daughter Ki-jung. They live in a cluttered basement flat in a run-down neighbourhood. In the first scene they're searching their home for Wi-Fi connection, and the first thing they do when they've found it is check WhatsApp for local job opportunities (folding pizza boxes, for instance) - invariably for zero-hour pay, we're given to believe. When their street is fumigated, they open their windows so as to get free pest control. Then, one evening, a friend of Ki-woo's drops by and tells him that he wants Ki-woo to take over his job tutoring English to the teenage daughter of a wealthy family. Even though he lacks the necessary qualifications, Ki-woo knows better than to turn down such a tempting offer; Ki-jung fakes a college degree, and he's all set.
The Parks, Ki-woo's new employers, live isolated on a hill, in a palatial modern property that happened to remind me of Mon Oncle. Like the Kims, they're a unit comprising two parents, a son and a daughter. They also have a housekeeper and a chauffeur. The mother, Yeon-gyo, indulges her children no end; the father, Dong-ik, is suave and seemingly more shrewd than his wife, but quickly proves himself equally snobbish. Faced with the airheaded Yeon-gyo, Ki-woo has no difficulty bluffing his way into the position of tutor. He gathers from Yeon-gyo's wittering that her hyperactive son Da-song is in need of an art therapist. Enter Ki-jung, posing as "Jessica" (Ki-woo has been assigned the English name "Kevin" by Yeon-gyo). Before you know it, the brother and sister are fixing it so that the chauffeur and housekeeper have both lost their jobs, enabling Ki-taek and Chung-sook to fill their shoes.
For roughly its first half (or perhaps more), Parasite moves at a gleeful trot, a splendidly funny comedy in which the resourceful Kims outwit the complacent Parks under the guise of serving them. It's nothing short of delightful to watch this dexterous clan working their elaborate fraud, layering on the fabrication with such ease. There's a benign (albeit juicy) suspense bubbling away under it all, arising from whether or not the Parks will stumble across the truth about these seemingly unrelated people working for them. We feel as if they can't possibly sniff them out, so up themselves are they, but as with any heist there's always a danger. Then, at the moment when it seems the Kims' situation couldn't be more secure, things start to happen. A comparison with Park Chan-wook's The Handmaiden, which also featured a jaw-dropping twist in the tail, is tempting, but it wouldn't be right to say that the change that happens in Parasite neatly turns the plot on its head. Instead, it takes what's been happening so far, regarding not only narrative but also character and mood, and plunges it into the most disorientating waters.
During all this, I felt something happen to me that I can't recall happening with any other film. A pleasurable excitement had been growing in me from anticipation of the Kims' exposure, but it took only a single moment (which I can well imagine is the same moment for many others who've seen the film) for that excitement to curdle into something much more uncomfortable. My stomach literally turned, and stayed that way for the rest of the film. This also happened to be the moment when the film's thematic intent, heretofore oblique and imprecise, began to fall into place. Just as it would be wrong to categorise Parasite in terms of a single genre, it feels just as wrong to say that it all it does is launch an attack on a class structure that becomes more and more ingrained and unfair with each passing day. But at the same time, that is all it does. It's just that Bong launches the attack with a grandeur, a weightiness, that is unaccountably overwhelming. It moves beyond the dimensions of satire into something whose treatment of its themes starts to get under your skin. It's really rather harrowing.
That's proof of the film's artistry. For the most part, Parasite is a marvel based on sheer craftsmanship alone. The cast is magnificent, particularly Song Kang-ho. He reminds me of Glenn Close in how his face seems to serve as an emotional battleground: you can never say for sure what he's thinking or feeling at a given moment. The screenplay, by Bong and Han Jin-won, is in many ways what steers the film on its twisty course through stinging hilarity to painful sobriety. Jung Jae-il's score does its bit in this regard. The film is also beautifully designed and shot, generating a vivid sense of space that roots the characters in the distinctive setting. Mustering these elements of filmmaking into a glorious whole is Bong in the director's chair. He keeps a tight grip on the film from top to bottom: when it needs to be sprightly it's sprightly; when it needs to be gut-wrenching it's gut wrenching; when it needs to go all out with stabbing terror, it more than does so. And yet somehow you never once question its coherence.
Parasite is crammed full of timely things to say, but it would be nothing without a strong cinematic voice with which to say them. It's astonishingly rare for a film to be this urgent in its message yet at the same time so captivating in its construction, and for these two sides to come together and affect the viewer so viscerally. On a purely emotional level, there are things in Parasite that are going to stay with me for goodness knows how long - no mean feat for a Best Picture winner.
Added to:
My Growing Canon
Best films per year
Best Picture Oscar winners I've seen, ranked
Palme d'Or winners I've seen, ranked
1751. Yorum: (B&W Edition) 
Urrrrrggggghhh just So. Fucking. GOOD. You’d think on a third viewing (and my second time watching in the last 5 days) I’d start to get diminishing returns but goddamn I’m sorry this really is one of the best films ever made and if you wanna chime in and give a dumb hot take on how this “isn’t really THAT good” i don’t wanna hear it! On repeat viewing you really just notice so many intricately plotted details that only further highlight just how flawless and tight this screenplay is, no moment is ever dull, every single second constantly bounces back and forth from tension, humour, horror, drama and yet somehow it never at any point feels jarring. The added addition of the B&W cinematography gives a much colder and harsher realism to moments that already had so much tension before, I do kinda feel like the lack of colour does take away a bit of personality from certain settings but nonetheless a cool experiment and any moment during night time looks downright stunning. This is just unfathomably perfect but I’m sure y’all already know that unless your one of those weirdos who somehow think Joker is better than this? Sure bro.
1752. Yorum: 10/10
My fourth watch.
I'm surprised it's still just as good after this many rewatches. Still truly thrilling, shocking, and unnerving (enough so that there are still bits that make me cover my mouth out of distress).
Also: I'm glad I have enough friends to go to this movie so many times.
Also: I have officially watched this movie more in theaters than any other movie.
Also: This is my favorite movie that I've seen in theaters during its initial run.
Also: This movie is exactly what 2019 needed and was leading up to. It perfected Joker and Us's stories of class struggle, Midsommar's daylit horror, The Farewell and The Last Black Man's ruminations on home and identity, and The Lighthouse and Climax's escalations into sheer insanity.
Also: It's perfect and one of the best movies of all time.
Also: I'm seeing it again on Friday.
1753. Yorum: THE HYPE IS REAL! What a film. Just when I thought it couldn’t get weird, IT DID THAT. So glad I saw this in theaters. Truly an experience.
1754. Yorum: Hits from da Bong!

Holy Virus, what an infectious movie.
A crowdpleaser for FilmLovers if I ever saw one.
And that is meant in the best way possible.
Best of the Year so far, and very hard to beat for anybody. Surely one of the best of the decade. I'm simply in love with this movie!
I'm spoiling nothing here, as each and every single detail I would tell you, would rob you of a hilarious, shocking or surprising moment.
Bong Joon-Ho (Rank 12▲) comes out of left field with this epic dramedy that always finds a new angle to surprise you.
Be it the camera, the set-design, the formidable Actors or simply the marvelous story. It may be his very best work yet, which is saying a lot, since he hasn't let me down (yet).
I hope we get a good 4K-UHD-Disc (and not only the french release) of this wonderful pictures that was captured with an Alexa 65, the same godly camera that already framed Roma so incredibly rich and detailed.
1755. Yorum: 
1756. Yorum: Wow, I really don't know how best to talk about Parasite so here some words that might help - funny, stressful, heartbreaking, razor sharp, brilliant. Bong Joon-Ho's direction is impeccable and the performances spot on. I'm glad I went in cold and allowed the film to unravel around me, not once did it lose my attention. It spins a masterful web that encases you in its absurdity, and when things get really bleak, you're too transfixed to break free, nor would you want to. There's one scene in the film where our leads rapidly run down many flights of steps and that whole sequence is forever etched in my mind. It is so simple but so effective at what it conveys, and it really broke my heart. It's been hours since I saw Parasite and I can't shake the awe it left me in. A truly incredible piece of cinema, deeply poignant and intoxicating, Parasite is a masterpiece.
1757. Yorum: Sometimes my brain itches and I wonder if it’s a brain worm like RFK. Do you think that the worm in RFK’s brain was gonna eventually get the rest of the worms in RFK’s brain fired so that he could replace them with his worm family members and help get them out of poverty, only to realize that there was a worm in the basement of RFK’s brain that had been sending out Morse codes through RFK’s blinking patterns but then the worms fought and they all died and RFK became secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services? I think so.
1758. Yorum: “If I had all this I would be kinder.”
Parasite was one of those movies that played a fundamental role in turning me from someone who casually watched movies to someone who writes reviews here. Likewise, it was important in starting my love for Asian cinema. What can I say about it that hadn’t been said before? It’s masterful both in form and substance. The camerawork, the set designs, and the small hints at, most brilliant of all, that twist that splits it right down the middle. Two distinct atmospheres that complement each other perfectly. A lighthearted comedy morphing into a twisted thriller in a way only Bong could pull off. Then going from the decadence of wealth, the desperate struggle to even experience a fragment of it, to that devastating flood. The bitter, harsh, unforgiving reality of poverty. An unrelenting, unbelievably powerful stretch of scenes. 
An exploration of the wealth gap in our society, of morality, of family. It has so much to say, while leaving so much room for the viewer to ponder where the line lies. A little white lie to scrape by can spiral to such proportions. Greed and hypocrisy consume this family that starts so lovable and easy to root for, until they pay the steepest price. Such incredible acting from all, but especially Song Kang-ho proves why he is one of the modern greats. Parasite could be a career-defining achievement, enough to carve out a legacy for any other director, but for Bong it’s not even his finest work. A fantastic film.
1759. Yorum: It was a great experience both in terms of the script and the depth of character.The way the movie portrayed the social class divisions was very impressive and every scene was like a work of art. I really liked it and I recommend it.
1760. Yorum: — Ki-woo... você sabe qual é o plano que nunca falha? Aquele que nunca é feito. No plan.
Parasita conta a história de uma família que se encontra toda desempregada e luta para sobreviver e conseguir uns trocados. Após Ki-woo começar a dar aula de inglês para uma garota de família rica, sua família bola um plano para se infiltrar na família, um por um.
Bom pra caralho. Poucos filmes conseguem o feito de te manter focado por mais de 2h nos acontecimentos como Parasita. Você acha engraçado, fica impressionado, e quando acha que tudo vai seguir a previsibilidade, o filme de supreende de uma forma que não dá pra descrever. No último ato eu fiquei literalmente sem palavras.
1761. Yorum: this makes me want to go back and give all the other movies i’ve rated 5 stars a 4.5 because WOW
1762. Yorum: what the hell
1763. Yorum: Masterfully constructed by Bong Joon-Ho, "Parasite" finds the director orchestrating a class allegory under the guise of both thriller and dark comedy. Its drama steeped in varying flavors of theme and genre, the narrative sees its central family, in need of employment, falling in with a wealthier clan as story threads unravel engagingly. That story is layered, its characters worthy of focus, and the cinema on display is vibrant: each shot composed with visual and narrative energy, and each edit quietly propulsive. The experience is enveloping, rich, and thought-provoking.
1764. Yorum: Terceira vez que assisto essa família de trambiqueiros e nunca me canso de dizer que eles foram muito perspicazes nessa trama.
Um dos filmes mais inteligentes que já assisti.
1765. Yorum: Ki-taek: They are rich but still nice.
Chung-sook, Ki-taek's wife: They are nice because they are rich.
Perfection !
As someone who went to a school with insanely rich people and would get invited to sleep overs etc I totally felt this movie to the core.
1766. Yorum: Recommended by @IanChoi
Wow! This is so metaphorical!
1767. Yorum: - .... .. ... ....... ..-. .. .-.. -- ....... .. ... ....... .- ....... -- .- ... - . .-. .--. .. . -.-. . ....... .- -. -.. ....... .. ....... -.-. .- -. - ....... .-- .- .. - ....... - --- ....... - .- .-.. -.- ....... .- -... --- ..- - ....... .. - ....... --- -. ....... --... ----- -- -- .-.-.-
1768. Yorum: 
1769. Yorum: Não revi o filme, só queria apontar algumas coisinhas.
Precisamos falar sobre suicídio oriundo de violência psicológica institucional.
Todo mundo é cheio de dedos quanto a falar sobre suicídio, mas realmente precisamos debater o assunto sob o ponto de vista da violência institucional que é um tipo de suicídio facilmente evitável se as instituições levassem em conta as subjetividades dos indivíduos.
O ator sul-coreano Lee Sun-kyun que ficou mundialmente famoso pelo filme Parasita de Bong Joon-Ho cometeu suicídio por estar sofrendo violência institucional corroborada pelo Estado, as leis anti drogas na Coreia do Sul são das mais nefastas do mundo, como Estado unitário ele se diferencia um tanto do que temos no Brasil, mas o Executivo, Legislativo e Judiciário promovem o mesmo tipo de violência institucional que qualquer lugar onde colocam leis acima do bem estar subjetivo dos indivíduos. Desde outubro Lee Sun-kyun vinha sofrendo assédio da polícia por supostos usos de drogas, algo que as leis do país coibem ferozmente, mas que viram um circo quando se trata de pessoas famosas, isso é violência psicológica institucional pura e simples e um gatilho muito grande para suicídio.
A violência institucional pode ser oriunda das variações dos três poderes(legislador, policial, promotores, juízes, assistentes sociais e até psicólogos que estão sob a orientação do Estado), familiar (famílias com alto grau de toxicidade e narcisismo tendem a negativar o afeto que seus membros precisam para uma subjetivação saudável) e corporativa (viver sob a égide do neoliberalismo passa a ser apenas sobreviver).
Estou falando tudo isso porque realmente precisamos falar sobre, há um ano venho sofrendo violência institucional do judiciário e familiar e sei o quanto é difícil passar por isso, por isso temos que levar em consideração também o tipo de suicídio político que Lee Sun-kyun cometeu, porque seus motivos são de ordem política. Pensem no suicídio do grande Stefan Zweig, claro que o que o motivou foi sua grande desesperança quanto ao mundo fascista que se vivia nos anos 40, mas essa desesperança era justamente política, foram violências institucionais corroboradas pelos Estados fascistas que o levaram ao suicídio e é assim ainda hoje.
1770. Yorum: it was okay, i guess...🤷‍♂️
1771. Yorum: WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK THIS IS A MASTERPIECE
1772. Yorum: why hasn’t there been a good movie since 2019 (even more hauntingly beautiful the second time around)
1773. Yorum: It’s not everyday you encounter a masterpiece. Today, I had the privilege of witnessing one. 
2 hours of pure greatness. This film is perfect, everything about it is perfect. I don’t say this often but I think this warrants the perfect card. 
There’s so much one can say about this film, but one thing for sure is that it changes my perspective about life. Among other things. 
I may just have found a new favorite.
Lists: 
My Top 100
1774. Yorum: I just wanted to watch this movie because of that toilet
1775. Yorum: holy fucking shit.
1776. Yorum: Certified Venom approved
1777. Yorum: One of my favorite movie experiences ever. Bong Joon ho, you're the man!
1778. Yorum: Parasite..... The most popular film on letterboxd and what can I say, it's still one of the best movies I have ever seen.
The editing, the cinematography, the writing, the acting, etc. Everything about this movie is almost perfect. The ending was pretty weak, I'm not gonna lie. But the rest are too good for me to care.
(I'm gonna be off for a while because of exams, essays, and shit. So goodbye for now and have a nice day. Peace!)
1779. Yorum: Showing this to new people is a 5 star experience itself
1780. Yorum: i could literally rewatch this every day for the rest of my life and not get sick of it
1781. Yorum: 
1782. Yorum: watching this in black and white was an experience! thank u amazon prime <3
1783. Yorum: BLACK AND WHITE VERSION
It’s strange because although it obviously doesn’t change much being without color, at the same time it does feel a lot different. The starkness of the black and white cinematography gives the overall sense that the film is more grounded in reality. There’s something about the colors in the original version of Parasite that suggests a more whimsical and playful nature. Even in the darker second half and the climax, the vibrant saturated colors used (especially in the birthday party scenes) still implicate something that’s surreal, dream-like, and maybe even fantastical—in the way the violence is juxtaposed against the bright colors. For me, that’s always been the charm of Parasite. The performances and score are still just as playful as ever, which is why the colorful cinematography fits it well. It’s the reason I still prefer the color version, even if this is still great and exists for its own reasons. 
I will say, there were some shots in here that I absolutely prefer with color. It made me miss what I knew already existed. However, at certain moments I couldn’t even remember what it looked like in color because it felt so right being without it.
Viewing #9
1784. Yorum: yes it’s taken me over a year to watch parasite. I’m sorry I’m just very countersuggestible by nature so often when I hear a film is very well received I might deliberately stay away from it as to not get disappointed when it turns out to not be as great as everyone has made it seem. that did not happen here. this is the best rated film on letterboxd and it deserves it. if you haven’t rated this five stars you are a statistical anomaly, a bootlicker or racist (or all three) and honestly idk whether we watched the same film because how anyone couldn’t rate that with full marks is beyond me. even if you ignore the undertones it’s still staggering and I love and appreciate Bong Joon Ho a great deal
1785. Yorum: “I am deadly serious” is the new “deadass” 
1786. Yorum: I knew I missed going to the theater, but after seeing Inception and this within a few days of each other on the big screen, I seriously don't know how I survived in my house for so long watching movies. (FYI there's only 4 cases in the province)
I'd already seen this film before, but it hits so much harder in theaters with that incredible score. I fucking love this movie and I don't know anyone who doesn't. The fact that this has gotten as popular as it has tells me that people are fucking fed up living under the thumb of the rich and change is coming. Probably faster than we all realize.
Already feels like a classic.
1787. Yorum: If I was there none of this would have happened
1788. Yorum: Holy hell what a ride of a film!
So glad I finally got around to watching this.
1789. Yorum: The next Academy Awards show would be on April 25, 2021 meaning Parasite would be the longest running best picture oscar winner to date.......Bonghive nation we have truly WON 😌
1790. Yorum: It turns out the real parasites were the ignorant rich pricks we met along the way. :) 
I’m curious why no one talks about the relationship between Ki-woo and Da-Hye. Like, he’s an adult and she’s a teenager still in high school. Is this something the FBI should know?
1791. Yorum: A masterpiece. Korean cinema has been in its golden age since 2002, and this movie along with Handmaiden, and Oldboy will be remembered as the Citizen Kanes, The Goodfellas, and The Godfather’s of Korean cinema. I already watch some Korean movies but I really need to watch more, because modern Korean movies for me just have something more special, and engaging than modern American movies. Maybe the subtitles make them more engaging, maybe the storytelling is new and exiting. Whatever the reason everyone should watch Parasite and other Korean movies.
1792. Yorum: IMAX this time...
Viewing #8
1793. Yorum: The student cinema that I oversee at the UofL campus was really fortunate to be able to get this movie so soon after the oscars. Our distributor said it was a close call to not having the license available until later due to the wider theatrical re-releases and I wasn’t planning on seeing it again last night but I heard that the turnout was really solid. I wanted to be there for that experience since our theater rarely pulls more than twenty people per showing. 
I did one of the more in depth and lengthier reviews I’ve done in a while on this film pretty recently so I’m not gonna say much, I’m also extremely tired after working a charity event on campus from 1:30 to 8 in the morning and I’ve got an 11 hour day of work ahead of me that just began about an hour ago so my brain isn’t even functioning well enough to say anything meaningful about this movie. 
It’s fantastic, you probably already know that. It was really cool and fulfilling to see so many different people show up for it last night and seem completely enthralled by the film. At the very least, I hope some of the people in the audience who maybe don’t usually check out foreign films found something new to dive into cause there are so many amazing ones. I really need to check out the rest of Bong Joon-Ho’s movies cause I’ve been blown away by both of the ones I’ve seen so far.
1794. Yorum: 
1795. Yorum: Well that was fun! 
 Not a movie I ever thought I’d see an IMAX release for but I’m happy to have it!
The first act is fairly obviously still perfect but seeing the entire second act on a giant ass screen with the score all around me just somehow made it even better. It really is the best movie
1796. Yorum: [86]
A piece I wrote for my university's paper. The larger piece does not contain spoilers, but — for the content I cut for the paper — some spoilers will be found in the appendices which follow the review.
‘Parasite,’ the brilliant Korean Best Picture winner
My affair with writer-director Bong Joon-ho’s “Parasite” began back in August, then three months after its premiere at the 72nd annual Cannes Film Festival where it won the top prize, the Palme d’Or, the most prestigious film festival award in the world. Since then, a peculiar sequence of events began and subsisted for several months, a trumpet-sounding, word-of-mouth landslide that has likely never occurred on this scale for a recently released film, an internationally produced film no less. Word of the film’s brilliance circulated through the cinematic hemisphere, and if one were to have even remotely considered themselves a member of the film community in some capacity, that word quickly reached their ears.
Having been a champion of director Bong’s work for several years, that word greeted me even before its Cannes premiere. His works — such as “Memories of Murder” and “Mother” (though some may know him more as the director of “Okja” and “Snowpiercer”) — have long gamboled on the cinematic world stage, creating an image for himself as the trickster director who willfully plays with tone. Like the recurring motif of stairs found in this film, if a viewer were to chance upon one of Bong’s genre-bending films, they would stumble down the flight, hitting every step on the way down — taking a frenetic journey through a cavalcade of seemingly disparate genres, of drama, horror, suspense and comedy.
It would seem counterproductive of this review to not relay the basics of the story, but myself, alongside many others, believe this is a film worth experiencing as blindly as possible, with little or no prior knowledge of the film going in. Yet, with this genre-swirling, high-wire act of the film, it would be best to give vague descriptions.
Living in a semi-basement concrete home located in the lowermost slums of Seoul, the nuclear Kim family eke out a living with odd jobs and, with phones raised high to the ceiling, a desperation for Wi-Fi. Yet, a tutoring opportunity for Ki-woo, the son of the family, allows him entry into the Park house, itself a nuclear family with one major difference — they live in the opulent hills of Seoul, in a house made of glass and stern wood. What follows is a progression of subterfuge, where each member of the poor Kim family ingratiates themselves in the services of the rich Park family. However, con games often hit a snag.
As is often the case with director Bong’s work, there is a layer of classism, a study of hierarchies and societal verticality. This sense of verticality even reaches beyond the universality of class structure, moving into the frequent study of stairs and windows, the difference in elevation between houses, the geographic inquiry between North and South Korea, Native Americans and their tortured history with our “manifest destiny” United States, the way the con of the Park family works up through the family tree of the Kim family and in the film’s differentiation — again rising upward — of stink bugs, the poor and the rich.
But the gymnastics one expects with narratives such as these do not play out conventionally. Curiously, the con begins at the suggestion of the son’s rich friend, the previous tutor to the Parks. Stink bugs are appropriated to Ki-taek, the patriarch of the Kim family (played brilliantly by master actor Song Kang-ho, whom I have dubbed as the “Tom Hanks of Korea” among friends), as odor plays a significant role here. And an unexpected MacGuffin in a gifted scholar’s rock, rocks that serve as talismans in East Asian countries — in this case, as a good-luck piece for material wealth, yet with each passing moment, the rock would seem to be supplying mockery instead.
The scholar’s rock is itself a superordinary object that even appears to deny the physics of water at one point. Not to mention the spectrum of color at work here with the slums affording greys and browns and an abundance of tangled phone lines, while the Park family home is adorned in green foliage and crystalline glass. The first sight of the Park home is met with green stalks, and just outside, in the adjacent neighborhood, high walls are draped in vines. Both family homes were constructed for the film, and as such, the production design takes notice to detail. The Kim home is small and rundown, with the toilet being the highest-situated object in the semi-basement, while the Park home is expansive and pristine, with so much empty, unused space, anything can be hidden, where secrets can be kept well-buried.
Naturally, the title of the film relates to the relationship that forms between the Kims and the Parks, but director Bong instills a more universal theme. Both families survive off the other in some manner, whether through employment or deliberate deception, and they do so by wearing masks, playing a part in order to get what they want. Recalling Shakespeare’s “Hamlet,” where the title character play-acts to suss out his regicidal uncle, “Parasite” — not choosing to favor one family over the other — makes the claim that everyone is a parasite, that we all disguise our personalities in order to endure in the social stratum.
“Parasite” is a brilliant work, in craft, acting performance and in narrative. The cinematography supplied by Hong Kyung-pyo ably, through framing and shot composition, making the most of the hierarchal themes at work in the story. The score by composer Jung Jae-il, like director Bong’s affinity for genre whirlpooling, maneuvers between the somber, the energetic and the horrifying. However, certain last-act beats — even still after my fourth viewing — are somewhat difficult to digest, as if making a point was only moderately more important than keeping to character.
Bookended by similar-looking shots, the film bespeaks an ill omen of cyclical despair, perhaps most pointedly on the notion of capitalism. Which makes it an altogether surprise that the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences gave the award for Best Picture to “Parasite,” a film that explores and indirectly condemns capitalism, the defining attribute of the American environment.
Indeed, the Best Picture win for “Parasite” (including Best Original Screenplay, Best Director and the newly designated Best International Film) was a monumental moment in cinematic history. Never before has a foreign film taken home the Best Picture Oscar, and never before — in so long a span of time — has the Academy been so right in handing out the award to the most deserving film, when they have so often missed the mark in previous years. “Parasite” made history, and deservedly so, in all aspects of its existence.
The wonderful thing about being a connoisseur of art is knowing that there is an entire historical inventory of films, books and music to discover. History extends its reach not in years but in centuries. Like my discovering of new films seemingly each and every day — like an archaeologist digging into the earth — perhaps, one day, “Parasite” will be one of the great treasures unearthed from the soil centuries from now. With “Parasite,” and so many other great films, pressing play can be a wondrous thing.
Cut content, scrawled notes:
"This is so metaphorical" as Bong beating the audience to the punch in regard to the metaphor scholar's rock.
Verticality in opposition to Snowpiercer's horizontality.
The Park father works in augmented reality, as a way of his naiveté/willful blindness to the impurities of the world. Augmented reality is fake: the Park's fortune is built by fakery (in juxtaposition to how everyone here fakes their personalities in some way, in particular: Da-song and Ki-woo, the sons of each family, are daydreamers).
The Park wife, conversely, is deaf to the world, e.g. our first encounter with her being the housekeeper having to clap her hands in order to wake her.
North Korea as the reason for the bunker. Oppression/threats sink people lower.
Flood is an inconvenience for the Parks, but an utter disaster for the Kims. By the end of the film, each family loses one member.
North Korea as a recurring topic in recent South Korean cinema, mocking North Korean broadcasters who report the news in totalitarian-fueled vigor. DMZ, 39th parallel.
Me, cynically: probably only won the Oscar because the Parks spoke highly of the durability of camping tents made in the U.S.
1797. Yorum: Fuck Yeah.
1798. Yorum: I didn’t rewatch it.
I just came here to say that, right now, I’m the happiest person alive. 😊
1799. Yorum: ok i have no words
1800. Yorum: In Bong Joon Ho's Parasite, We begin with the struggling lower class Ki-taek and The higher class Park Family as they cross paths with each other and one wanting what the other has in their given class. Now Bong touches on other worldly problems that interupt both families in opposite ways. In a metaphor sense we see it unfold then some else happens and makes the struggle much harder. The performances are solid along with the directing. I highly recommend that you watch it!!
1801. Yorum: If you love well written thrillers, this is 100% for you. This movie is so intense from start to finish. I also recommend keeping an eye out for the symbolism and themes present throughout the movie.
1802. Yorum: A masterful work about the ambiguity of capitalism issues that gives this so much rewatch value. The detail in this movie is insane in the best way(take notes Todd Phillips), Go read Jackson Hendrix’s review on letterbox cause it rules. I love the ending to this movie and the rich mom has my heart 💚
1803. Yorum: Wow. What a movie.
The only other 5 star movies from me were Joker and Little Women, so Parasite is in good company! 
You know, some may call it recency bias, but I’m gonna say it: Parasite is one of the best films I’ve seen in a long time. 
Yeah, it’s that good. I only vaguely knew of the plot going in and didn’t watch any trailer, and boy was I surprised. 
I think it’s interesting this movie and Joker came out in the same year. They are actually very similar. Both movies theme’s surround class struggle. The 1% vs the 99%. I think both movies capture the inequality that persists within our world. This movie isn’t afraid to go for the jugular. You see the rich having a lavish garden party just cause while the poor are experiencing flooding in their homes, among many other examples.  
Without giving anything away, this family is dirt poor and the son ends up getting to work for a wealthy family. There are many twists and turns that made me audibly gasp. I will not expand on this further because you just need to see this thing. 
This is also a funny movie? I think I laughed more at this than any comedy I’ve seen in years. 
Bong Joon-ho is a force here as Director. You can feel his personal touch in every scene. 
The entire cast is exceptional, but my personal favorites were Song Kang-ho and Cho Yeo-jeong. Yeo-jeong as an out of touch rich housewife was just so much fun to watch.
Do yourself a favor and go see this in theaters if you haven’t already, or catch it when it’s available to rent. As Bong Joon-ho said in his Golden Globe acceptance speech, once you get over the one inch barrier of subtitles, you can discover so many more amazing films.
1804. Yorum: Upon further rewatch:
Still hits. From funny, to crazy, to DARK.
My original thoughts here.
98%
1805. Yorum: dot dash dash dash
dash dash dash
dash dot dot dot
Look, just put in an application for the bloody job like anyone else OK.
Nb. Cracking movie.
1806. Yorum: i haven't walked away from a film feeling more impacted i think in my entire life. i'm so relieved i went into this blind.
but, the sheer thought of knowing that there are people capable of creating stories this rich (lol) and delivering them with such excellence brings me ease and hope for the future of cinema. parasite is truly a once in a lifetime kind of film, a brilliant story that was delivered to me at just the right time including not one flaw. 
i am looking forward to sitting down to watch this thrill ride of a masterpiece again and again for probably the rest of my life.
1807. Yorum: 
1808. Yorum: ''Slashing through the exam. Dominating it! That's all I care about. What you need is vigor. Vigor.''
Intricately plotted, but not nearly as smart as it thinks it is.
Well constructed, and extremely fun. But the message is muddled and doesn't quite stick the landing.
I'm willing to be convinced that this is a deeply moralistic tale, with layers upon layers of depth, but it mostly feels like a pretty good black comedy with a very thin poor people live in bad situations and the rich are oblivious to that theme.
There's also the idea that money causes the poor to compete with one another, but that seems, I don't know... shallow? Thin?
The film seems class conscious only insofar as it's conscious of the existence of class as a concept.
It's a well plotted film though—a certain character's movements toward the end being a perfect illustration of how much of a sense of place there is in Parasite.
The film plays out with a sense of time and space that feels like Bong plotted the film with a dollhouse and chess pieces.
The way the film unfolds like a perfect, pulpy Rube Goldberg machine is just fantastically fun to watch.
I didn't love the aesthetic. That glossy k-drama thing really doesn't impress me, unless there's some impressive directing taking advantage of it—Park Chan Wook and Hong Jin Na being good examples—but there's not really anything terribly impressive here. But Parasite never looks bad. It's got pretty cinematography—the nighttime scenes have a real sense of darkness to them—and some interesting uses of screens in screens, but nothing else really stands out from a visual directing perspective.
The film's most impressive construction is in its content rather than its form.
Parasite is a good film, one of the better films of the year—though, in 2019 that seems like a backhanded compliment—I'm just not quite seeing the technical/narrative masterpiece or scathing political critique everyone else seems to see.
Wow, this so metaphorical.
1809. Yorum: A heist,comedy,thriller,horror film which blends them all perfectly in a 2 hrs jaw dropping ride.
1810. Yorum: Grade: 98%
2019 Ranked - HERE
Wow, this film is a masterpiece and even with all the praise it’s been getting I couldn’t have imagined how much I was going to love this. Parasite is a brilliantly crafted, intense film with a little bit of everything. It has some very funny comedic moments, mixed with an intriguing plot and sometimes even felt like a heist film. Bong Joon-ho has crafted a film that had me on the edge of my seat with every single twist and turn, it had me captivated until the credits rolled. I was caught off guard several times and didn’t see many things coming, in the best way possible, pretty much everything worked here. The acting is brilliant, each character has something special about them that was fleshed out throughout until the climax which was absolutely fantastic. There was only one thing that I’m still not sure about, without spoiling, but I very well could bring this grade up to perfect if I think on it more. I’m usually not a fan of foreign films, I’ve been pretty closed minded but this might get me to broaden my horizons more, it’s just so freaking good. This is a near-perfect film, one of the best movies I’ve seen this decade and it gets me excited to check out more films from Bong Joon-ho, because this was my first. I can not recommend Parasite enough, it’s funny, heartbreaking and just incredibly entertaining all the way through.
1811. Yorum: “The Gang Gets Trapped”
It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia
1812. Yorum: You have to surrender to Parasite’s achievement. I literally gaped in awe at the reveal of one major twist because Bong Joon-Ho’s masterpiece elicits such visceral reactions as that. Along with gaping, there was plenty of guffawing, gasping, and gurgling blood (in the movie, of course, not my own). 
Parasite is shocking and smart and suspenseful. Those three adjectives might be the most important in all of film, and to have them all present in the year’s best film is the reason it is. Not to mention that it’s message is timeless and eloquently put. 
Whereas last year’s Roma had a major barrier towards becoming the first foreign-language best picture winner in its plodding plot (not by my standards), I could see Parasite winning if enough people see it and the academy isn’t so squeamish. Parasite is an artsy film, yes, but it’s also one of the most entertaining movies of the year. I can’t see a way that anybody who’s anyone can’t enjoy this film (albeit squeamish people beware).
Also, based off the two Joon-ho films I’ve seen (this and Snowpiercer), he can reasonably be called the “we live in a society” director, but with flair and finesse
1813. Yorum: “Why do you keep clinging to that stone?”
“It keeps clinging to me.”
1814. Yorum: That's it?
1815. Yorum: Riveting, one of the best films of the year.
1816. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho said I respect people who make bad movies but that ain’t me
1817. Yorum: Undoubtedly one of the most flawless movies I've seen this year, at home or in theaters.
This film is incredibly masterful at balancing tones, almost overwhelming the audience in a rollercoaster of emotions, expectations, and experiences. I really enjoyed how this feels like several sub-movies, because it keeps transforming itself and becoming increasingly intense. Constantly surprising, and a brilliant play on expectations.
For the record, my theater had non-English subs so I missed some nuance in the dialogue, but I could still follow everything pretty well anyway, mostly due to the excellent visual storytelling. The score was very nice and playful and the cinematography had some great moments but overall was just good (but nothing negative).
One nitpick - I would have liked if they established the incoming flood earlier in the movie, so it's not some sudden development just for drama. Maybe they did in the dialogue and I missed it, or maybe it's a well-known aspect of the area and I'm just an ignorant doof. Though something similar for the route between the houses: I was wondering how they got to the rich house, and I think I would have liked to see them travel there once happily at the beginning, and then have that pay off when they have to come back in the rain and we already know the journey. Otherwise, to me, it was just some dramatic endless walk in the rain, and the audience has no realistic sense of time, distance, or even where they are.
A friend of mine, who happens to be Korean, gave me a great analysis of the symbolism of the rock: "The rock is given to Ki-Woo as a good luck charm, and the implication there mostly comes from the connotation of a good luck charm itself - those that are kind of lazy usually associate an object that has good luck "attached" to it to give them huge success by some miracle, and by extension, dishonest means. Said dishonest means are exactly what the Kims resort to in order to leech off of the Parks and gain a fair amount of wealth of their own, although it gets them nowhere as their lie is discovered and all their work turns to nothing. Ki-Woo ultimately lets go of the rock by returning it to a river during the sequence where he writes the letter saying he'll work hard in an honest way to gain a lot of wealth and buy the house - although at the end of the day, honest means for a family in such poverty may never work out."
In a nutshell, the rock = good luck, and good luck = dishonest success. I never would have arrived at that cultural connotation myself, but I can totally understand it now, and it really adds to my appreciation for the film. I think the rock may also represent the burden of their social status. As hard as they try to ascend, they're forever weighed down by the system and their social status. I love that the ending shot reflects the opening, but in reverse. When we see that shot originally, the film feels playful and simple, and we see a bright, bustling, lively household. But in the epilogue, the same shot is dark and empty, devoid of life and hope, and we're back where we started, but worse. It's the punishment for trying to challenge the status quo, for being disingenuous, for being arrogant.
I think the title is really clever as well, and I'm still not sure if I've totally unpacked it yet. I think it's easy to say that the Kims are parasites to the Parks, that the Kims' social status makes them parasites to the system, and that the housekeeper and her husband are also parasites to the Parks. But I think the title is asking us to question that - who are the real parasites? Why are they parasites? Are they feeding off the system, or do they have no choice? And lastly, is there even anything that can be done about it? In the vein of Alien, the title is both concrete and conceptual.
Joyful, hopeless, terrifying, and hilarious, Parasite is a well-written, well-directed, and well-made masterpiece of social commentary. I can't wait to rewatch it.
1818. Yorum: Just saw this at the Egyptian with a appearance and Q&A from director Bong Joon-Ho. Will likely be my favorite of 2019, I cant imagine what would take its place.
As others have said it's best to go in knowing nothing, so stop reading if you have yet to see it because the film has equal twists in both narrative and tone. Shifting gears between hilarious comedy, unbearable tension, capitalist commentary, deep tragedy, shocking horror, etc, etc all blending together to become something entirely original. And it fucking works.
After a while I never knew what I was going to see or feel but it didn't matter because whatever way the film settled it would be executed with such expertise and finesse that it could only excel. A staggering feat accomplished without folding in on it self, becoming inept or overt in its biting messages, while at the same time staying comprehensively accessible. The characters remain ambiguous in the realm of good and evil. The villains are misguided yet relatable, the victims undeserving but ignorant.
As creative as the writing is it's not the only thing worth praising here. Bong employs clever camera work that is both beautiful and tells a story. For instance composition is used to juxtapose its two main locations and families, switching between intimate and cramped to wide and stark. Plus the acting is formidable all around. Truly an ensemble cast and all pull their weight, impressively so when considering the wide range of material given. Special commendation goes to Song Kang-Ho and Chou Woo-shik, the two leads.
Undoudtedly deserving of all its praise and awards won and to come. Parasite stands alone as a crowning jewel in this director's already stellar filmography. Don't miss it. Absolutely recommend.
1819. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho did that again.
This might be not only the best movie of the year, but also one of the most brilliant and important out there. I've left breathless for two whole hours.
Cannes 2019 Palme d'Or award absolutely fucking deserved
1820. Yorum: 
1821. Yorum: The proletariat revolts, social class struggle through Joon Ho Bong's eyes.
A very well executed Identity theft movie, with the same precision and attention to detail that you would see in a Soderberg heist flick backed up with subtle and very well implemented social commentary.
The tonal changes here are simply masterclass!
93/100
1822. Yorum: Like I always say, "Bong can do no wrong!"
Once again, Bong destroys and delivers!
Such a creative and artistic genius, on EVERY front. An absolute master!
Bong; One of my fave film makers.
Song; One of my fave performers.
Bong AND Song; You're getting the gong!
Fave of 2019 so far
1823. Yorum: Parasite is perfectly written, directed, and played. Delivering a strong social commentary that can be interpreted at a universal level, Bong Joon-ho's voice and rage on how much the power of money has divided us fills every frame of this incredible movie, loud and clear. Bong Joon-ho said the most suitable term to describe 'Parasite' is a tragicomedy and I completely agree with it. It provides you with a variant of gallows humor you can laugh at while feeling guilty as well. A well deserved Palme d'Or! I was quite blown away. Fucking amazing. I think we'll hear about this movie for years to come, in the most positive way possible.
1824. Yorum: SUCH A TIGHT SCREENPLAY, every event feels like a direct response to the previous like a snowball rolling down a snowy hill. All in service of a rich narrative disecting social class and the hatred fueled in that. Deserving of every bit of praise it’s received and more.
1825. Yorum: This film is just wow…it’s so hard to write about it as there is so much to talk about.
One of my favourites yet I don’t tend to rewatch often, similar to that of requiem for a dream,  but is still one that I think about often. This genre of film is fantastic, and I always find the ending of this film so interesting and all credit must go to the fantastic director and screenplay writers!
1826. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho hat als Regisseur mit The Host und Memories of Murder schon zwei Filme in meiner noch imaginären Top 100. Sein Fingerspitzengefühl Themen und Genres wie Komödie, Drama, Spannung, Charakterstudie, Emotionen und Familie zu verschmelzen ist fantastisch. Die Figuren, soziale Gebinde und Storyfäden mögen kompliziert konstruiert erscheinen, erklären sich aber immer wieder fast wie von selbst. Das alles einmal mehr zusammen mit einem meiner Lieblingsdarsteller Song Kang-ho; in einem auch ansonsten perfekt zwischen Sympathie und Antipathie schillerndem Cast. Bilder und Musik sind exquisit, Hintergedanken oft perfide, finale Abgründe steil und düster.
Meine 5000 war ein voller Erfolg!
1827. Yorum: “once you overcome the one inch tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films.“ 🍑⋆⭒˚.⋆💸𖦹°༘⋆
wow, i mean what can already be said about this movie that hasn’t been said already. the experience of watching it is surely one to behold and one to remember. what is especially striking about the whole thing is just how well-constructed it is. a film like this, trying to do this much both narratively and thematically, could have easily fallen apart in the hands of most directors. this film goes places where few dare to wonder. it begins as a dark, hilarious comedy but evolves into a startling, violent climax i will never forget. everything about the film is exceptional. it is a true masterpiece.
1828. Yorum: Don’t ask why it took me so long to get around to watching this, but I’m glad I finally did. This is a movie that clearly has a lot of layers and themes to it, some of which are more forthright than others, but what’s most obvious is how expertly Bong Joon-ho constructs each aspect of it. In my opinion, my initial thoughts on this are that it’s a perfect movie; from the sharp writing to the stellar editing to the faultless performances to the cunning social commentary and so on, this is an example of a master at work.
1829. Yorum: I can confirm this is just as good as the 3x I watched it in 2020 🫡
1830. Yorum: 97
Cinema doesn’t get much better than this.
1831. Yorum: Parasite is sophisticated, excellent, and honestly, one of most well-crafted pieces of cinema I have ever seen. 
I can’t really explain it but this film is chameleon that is ever-changing—I mean, this is the second time watching this film but it feels just like the very first time. It was so intense and fast-paced that I felt like I was being held in a chokehold. The story feels simple and familiar yet it’s refreshing and like nothing I have ever seen before. Bong Joon-ho is a master at his craft; directing and writing, this was just phenomenal.
1832. Yorum: "They're rich...but still nice."
"Not rich but still nice. They're nice because they're rich."
Progressives need to stop being so shocked when rich people side with other rich people. They will do it every time, in every instance, no matter what hardships they faced before, no matter what group they're apart of that is "supposed" to resist the rich and powerful. Ellen DeGeneres doesn't have to care about war crimes because she's wealthy. The Queer Eye guys are millionaires, they can afford to be centrists, and say dumb shit like "Reagan killed our elders by the thousands but at least his hair was on point." The parade of white women Trump hires to defend him know that they will have their wealth to fall back on, even while they advance policies that will directly harm women of lesser means.
Over and over again, progressives gasp, and treat these people like the exceptions to the rule when it's more of the same. Maybe it's so hard to comprehend that the rich will always side with the rich, when the poor can't side with the poor. Every structure we encounter is built to chip away at our solidarity, we're programmed to believe that clawing our way to the top is a realistic option (if we push enough people out of our way), and if we can't manage to do that, we can blame it on other working class people, on immigrants or welfare recipients, because it's so much easier to believe that you're different, that you'll break through, than to accept that the system is rigged for you to fail or cannibalize your fellow workers trying. Parasite was made for South Korean audiences, but it hits hard and it hits close wherever capitalism reigns, because it turns us into monsters by design, fighting and killing each other for scraps and praising billionaires for giving us the opportunity to do so.
It's mentally corrosive, as destructive to our health and self-worth as the unshakable smell of poverty, and the backbone of an affecting and darkly comic tragedy that delights and destroys you in equal measure. The expert whiplash is just as enthralling on a second viewing, and the coda is even more unbearably crushing. Bong's masterpiece, see it in theaters while you still can.
1833. Yorum: 
1834. Yorum: I didn’t think anything would usurp Midsommar as my #1 movie of 2019 but parasite did it with ease. I was really looking forward to this film and exceeded all my expectations. The cinematography is gorgeous, the sound design is fantastic, the acting is really good. All the problems I have with it are all nitpicks really. The movie is actually really humorous too which I wasn’t expecting. There’s so much metaphorical stuff happening and an interesting twist that I can’t wait to rewatch the movie with new eyes. I can’t recommend this movie enough.
Grade:A+
1835. Yorum: Masterpiece Masterpiece Masterpiece
Bong's been my favorite director for the better part of two years now ever since I studied his filmography in-depth for one of my classes.
And, I didn't think it was possible, but this may very well b my new favorite Bong film. ('Mother' may still have it beat...which is shocking since its one of the few that doesn't star GOAT Song) At the least, easily favorite film of the year so far.
Bong loves to repeat shot types as a comparison/contrast at the opening/ending of his films. It serves to highlight the journey that the characters/audience have gone through. (Think 'Memories of Murder', 'Barking Dogs Never Bite', etc…)
But here, Bong pushes the bar. Here he reiterates shot types not to highlight a journey, but rather to contradict one! The saddest part of this story is not what is on-screen, but what is off it. The issue Bong highlights is cyclic. It is systemic. It is parasitic.
1836. Yorum: “Do I fit in here?”
Might as well pack it in, 2019 — I don’t think you’re gonna be able to top this one.
1837. Yorum: imagine living in a situation where the toilet sits higher than you
1838. Yorum: there’s just something about a thunderstorm that makes everything cinematic. could make eating a can of baked beans seem like some kind of intense anti-hero subplot
1839. Yorum: “Once you overcome the 1-inch-tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films” -Bong Joon Ho
This film was amazing for the sole purpose of my mom not being able to understand the F-Bombs that were being dropped every 5 seconds.
1840. Yorum: Que se puede decir que no se haya dicho antes, Parasite (기생충) es la cuspide del cine coreano como tambien una de las mayores obras del cine moderno.
Una grandiosa mezcla de satira, humor y suspenso que cual parasito no se me puede salir de la cabeza, cada detalle tecnico esta tan bien pensando, desde el uso de las escaleras hasta el uso de "Lineas", que en cada plano separan a los personajes segun sus roles y clases, ¡wow! Todo esto se puede resumir en que el trabajo de Bong Joon-ho y todo su equipo fue magistral.
8 duraznos de 10
1841. Yorum: I have nothing to add aside from infinite enthusiasm because everyone has seen this before me and everyone has laid out my impressions more eloquently than I’m able. That said, 5 IMMEDIATE stars for ANY reason you can think of. 
New film standard; must include all genres.
1842. Yorum: i could throw a better birthday party than that
1843. Yorum: There wasn't a single Parasite. How fucking hard is it for a movie to be a medical drama about King Richard III being infected by a lethal parasite and how it affected his battle of Bosworth Field.
0/10
1844. Yorum: Nothing much to add just amazing again
1845. Yorum: I WATCHED THIS IN APRIL 2021 AND I’M REVIEWING IT NOW
Yeah, this deserved best picture. Seeing this film very early in April this year, I was really captivated by how good a foreign film was. And now looking back, it feels ridiculous that I came up with that statement so confidently. Bong Joon-Ho is a master, no denying that. Memories of Murder is, in my opinion, his masterpiece, but I can’t deny the greatness of the masterpiece which is Parasite.
Heavy symbolism, themes, and meaning, and packed with black comedy and subtle yet unrelenting horror, this truly is a masterful piece of art. Everyone did their job perfectly. This is how you make someone engaged in a film.
Coming to performances, everybody does their part well. But we all know the clear standout here, the man, the myth, the legend. I don’t even have to say his name. Acting perfection here in this film. Truly one of the most legendary films of all time. Oscars, give foreign cinema the recognition it deserves!
1846. Yorum: 
1847. Yorum: there's a reason why this is constantly listed on letterboxd's 'popular this week', absolutely mesmerizing.
1848. Yorum: yesterday was my one year anniversary of watching this for the first time so in honor of that i decided to do a rewatch. 
it was spectacular. just as good as the first time and it’ll definitely be just as good the third time.
“They say a ghost in the house brings wealth.”
“It keeps clinging to me. “
1849. Yorum: First time watching this one since I saw it in theaters. Hands down, Parasite has one of the most original scripts ever put to film with brilliant direction from Bong Joon Ho. Song Kang Ho was completely overlooked by the Academy as he’s spectacular as the Dad. A few minor gripes (specifically with the drawn out ending) keep this film from being a masterpiece in my eyes, but I still love it. Even though it wasn’t my personal pick... it’s a well deserved Best Picture winner and one of my top 10 films from last year.
1850. Yorum: Parasite
Regie von Bong Joon-ho
Prolog
Jeder der Filme, die ich mit fünf Sternen bewertet habe, bedeutet mir etwas auf emotionaler Ebene. Der eine mehr, so wie "The Truman Show", der andere etwas weniger, so wie "Whiplash" oder "Bad Times at the El Royale". Am Ende letzterer Kategorie reiht sich Bong Joon-hos "Parasite" ein, ein Film eines Mannes, dem ich meine tiefste Bewunderung für sein Genie beipflichten mag, der mich aber bei weitem nicht so viel fühlen ließ, wie es andere Filme taten. Dass der Film bei den Oscars die Goldjungen für den besten fremdsprachigen Film abräumen würde, das war wohl Wochen, wenn nicht Monate vor der Verleihung klar. Dass er jedoch auch für das beste Originaldrehbuch, die beste Regie und den besten Film generell ausgezeichnet werden würde, das hätte ich in meinen kühnsten Träumen nicht kommen sehen können. Ganz abgesehen von der Tatsache, dass ich es nicht nachvollziehen kann, wie er eine Nominierung für die beste Kamera und den besten Score verpassen konnte, möchte ich jedoch noch etwas einschieben.
Fremdsprachige Filme
Es gibt genügend Beispiele für phänomenale Filme, die nicht in englischer Sprache gedreht wurden und ohne jetzt ein Fass über Synchronisationen zu eröffnen, möchte ich mich doch dafür aussprechen entsprechenden Filmen eine Chance zu geben, auf welchem Wege auch immer (, wenn möglich jedoch im Originalton, da gerade aus dem asiatischen viele Lippensynchronisationen nahezu unmöglich gemacht werden). Es gibt so viele Filme, die viele mir bekannte Personen nicht schauen würden, weil sie ungewöhnlich erscheinen, aber ist nicht gerade das DAS, was wir alle wollen? Etwas neues, kreatives, einzigartiges. Etwas mit einem Gedanken und nicht nur ein weiteres Produkt der immer gleichen Art, so gut einem diese auch gefallen mag. Filme wie "Pans Labyrinth", "Oldboy", "Persona", "The Wailing", "Ringu" oder "Burning" sind nur eine kleine ansammlung unfassbar guter Filme, die von vielen aufgrund der Tatsache, dass niemand ihnen bekanntes mitspielt, vergleichsweise wenig Beachtung geschenkt wird.
Eine erste Lektion sei euch hiermit auf den Weg gegeben: Schaut fremdsprachige Filme (und lasst die Synchro möglichst weg)!
Natürlich bin ich bei weitem kein Experte auf dem Gebiet des fremdsprachigen Films, aber trotzdem war es mir irgendwie wichtig diese Worte zu verfassen. Auch schaue ich nicht jeden Film im O-Ton und so weiter und sofort, es geht mir schlichtweg darum, dass viele Zuschauer die Augen ganz vor dieser Art des Kinos verschließen und ihm überhaupt keine Chancen geben.
Ein Film, der Erwartungen über den Haufen wirft
Inhaltlich ist "Parasite" ohne jeden Zweifel einer der kreativsten und unvorhersehbarsten Filme, die das Kino je erlebt hat. Bei meiner ersten Sichtung wusste ich rein gar nichts über den Film und er hat mich schlichtweg umgehauen. Auch nach meiner nun dritten Sichtung muss ich aber sagen, dass die Art, in der Bong Joon-ho seine Geschichte erzählt nicht nur unglaublich clever, sondern auch nahezu unmöglich vorherzusehen ist. Es gibt einige Momente an Foreshadowing, die man aber ohne das Ende des Films gesehen zu haben kaum deuten kann, anders als es beispielsweise bei "Fight Club" der Fall ist, auch wenn den Twist auch dort nicht jeder hat kommen sehen. Die Mixtur sämtlicher Genres, angefangen bei der Komödie, bis hin zum Horror, funktioniert verboten gut und vielleicht macht eben dies aus, dass der Film wie im Flug vergeht. Das Pacing ist auf einem Level, das seinesgleichen sucht, unterstützt von einem bittersüßen Humor und überraschend viel Spannung. Wer hat kommen sehen, was es mit den Lichtsensoren im Treppenhaus der Familie Park auf sich hat, als er das erste Mal die Lampen hat angehen sehen? Mittlerweile läuft es mir bei entsprechender Szene eiskalt den Rücken hinunter. Natürlich ist dies nicht die einzige mehr als erinnerungswürdige Szene des Films, aber eine, die mir mit am nachhaltigsten in Erinnerung geblieben ist. Auch die Pfirsich-Montage und die Eskalation während des Höhepunktes des dritten Aktes sind absolut phänomenal und man kommt aus den lobpreisungen merklich einfach nicht heraus.
Audiovisuell vielschichtig und schlichtweg meisterhaft
Bereits nach meiner Erstsichtung habe ich "Parasite" bei meinen persönlichen Nominierungen für die beste Kamera und den besten Score nominiert und dazu stehe ich nach wie vor. Letzteren habe ich mir etliche Male über Spotify angehört und mehr als lieben gelernt und erstere bewundere ich von Tag zu Tag mehr. Nahezu jeder Shot hat eine Bedeutung und trägt maßgeblich zur Story bei, fügt dem Film sogar eine weitere Ebene hinzu und erweitert das Erlebnis damit. Der Klassenunterschied beispielsweise wird durch die Kameraarbeit extrem veranschaulicht, jedoch nicht auf eine provokante Art und Weise, sondern sehr subtil, mit viel Liebe zum Detail und einem unfassbar guten Blick. Natürlich untermalt der verdammt starke Schnitt das Ganze noch und ist auch von meiner Seite in den höchsten Tönen gelobt, jedoch reicht er bei weitem nicht die Cleverness der Kameraarbeit. Hier muss man ein weiteres Mal Bong Joon-ho loben, der viele der Shots bereits in seinen Storyboards geplant hat, welche mehr oder weniger direkt so umgesetzt wurden, wie es gedacht war, was nicht immer der Fall ist. Der ganze Film ist ein audiovisuelles Meisterwerk, ähnlich wie "Blade Runner 2049", aber doch ganz anders. "Parasite" ist subtiler und auch wenn ich "Blade Runner 2049" keinen Mangel daran aussprechen möchte, spielt "Parasite" in dem Sinne eben doch in einer völlig anderen Liga. Das passende und detailreiche Setdesign möchte ich an dieser Stelle auch nochmal loben, denn es gibt tatsächlich viel zu entdecken, was bei einer Erst- oder Zweitsichtung nicht auf dem Radar des Zuschauers ist und in dieser Hinsicht besteht der Film auch noch den Test des Wiederanschauungswertes mit Bravour.
Die Schwäche, die keine ist
Wie definiert man Schwächen und ab wann ist etwas eine Schwäche? Diese und ähnliche Fragen stellt sich wohl jeder Kritiker von Zeit zu Zeit und so auch ich, insbesondere bei diesem Film. Für mich persönlich sind Schwächen von Film zu Film anders zu definieren, denn was ich in diesem Film bemängeln möchte, stört mich nicht, ich habe lediglich den Gedanken, dass man es auch hätte cleverer lösen können. Besonders gegen Ende des zweiten Drittels von "Parasite" wird oft die Oberschicht mitsamt ihren Eigenheiten bis ins kleinste Detail beleuchtet und dies passt für mich nicht ganz in die sonst doch sehr subtile Art des Films. Nichtsdestotrotz hat mich das auch beim dritten Mal keineswegs gestört und ging quasi unter, auch wenn es den Dialogen hin und wieder nicht unbedingt gut tut. Kann ich dem Film übel nehmen, dass er in diesen wenigen Szenen nicht so clever und subtil ist wie sonst? Nein! Der Rest des Films überschattet diesen minimalen Makel so derart, dass er quasi nicht auffällt, besonders nicht bei der Erstsichtung. Des weiteren ist es alles andere als untypisch, dass mehr als nötig erklärt wird, fragt da Mal Christopher Nolan nach "Inception" oder Jordan Peele nach "Wir". Dieser minimale Makel dürfte eigentlich gar nicht als solcher bezeichnet werden, da der Rest des Films jedoch derart perfekt ist, wirkt etwas völlig normales direkt vollkommen anders.
Fazit
Was lehrt uns das? "Parasite" ist ein Meisterwerk. In jedweder Hinsicht ist "Parasite" makellos und man sucht lange nach etwas, was nicht auf diese Beschreibung zutrifft. Schaut mehr fremdsprachige Filme und l(i)ebt das Kino!
10/10
Listen:
2019 - Ranked
Cinema Visits 2020
2010s Top 10
1851. Yorum: the movie version of “that escalated quickly”
1852. Yorum: Ki-jung sat on the exploding toilet smoking a cig is a fat mood
1853. Yorum: what a masterpiece...i’m just so glad this won best picture it really deserved it
1854. Yorum: the cinema was so packed that my girlfriend and I had to sit on the floor and I couldn't be happier about it
1855. Yorum: 9/10
*mild spoilers*
💕The Good:
This film definitely deserves all the hype.
It covers every genre going which is impressive in its self. It's hilarious, creepy and emotional.
It looks stunning! From the Kim's basement home to the Park's stunning mansion the details are impeccable.
I absolutely loved the characters and everything they got up to. All the actors were brilliant.
This film was truly bonkers but in the absolute best kind of way.
I enjoyed it from beginning to end.
💩The Bad:
There was a coupling that was a bit icky because of the age difference. She just looked really young.
Can't think of much else wrong with it tbh.
😍Eye Candy: Sun-Kyun Lee, Yeo-jeong Jo, Woo-sik Choi, So-dam Park and Seo-joon Park.
So overall, absolutely amazing and I can't wait to watch it again soon. Maybe get the top rating next time. We shall see 😁
1856. Yorum: "It's so metaphorical!"
Bong Joon-ho was one of the first filmmakers I fell in love with, during my big transition from movie lover to hardcore analysis driven cinephile. It must have been 2009 or 2010 when my best friend showed me Oldboy with no warning. From that day on, I was obsessed and extremely satisfied with Korean cinema: I'd go as far as saying it's my favourite international group of films. Bong was the second director I quickly latched on to after Park Chan-wook, which also brought Song Kang-ho into my world. It's safe to say that Bong's Fincher-esque yet pre-Zodiac 2003 sophomore feature film - and still his best to date - Memories of Murder put his name on the map. But it wasn't really till 2013 with his first western marketed Chris Evans led Snowpiercer, that introduced Bong to the mainstream world. It also more than likely shed some more deserved light on South Korea as an outlet for quality cinema. 
Damn, Oldboy and A Tale of Two Sisters also came out in 2003 - a banger year for Korean cinema - but Park Chan-wook and Kim Jee-woon didn't really become recognised by the masses until similar western awards buzz surrounded The Handmaiden in 2016 and I Saw the Devil's Sundance premiere in 2011. True, Park Chan-wook had victorious visits to Cannes, winning a Grand Prix (2nd best after Palme d'Or) in 2004, unjustly losing out to Michael Moore's Fahrenheit 9/11. It's safe to say that by the late 2000s to early 2010s, Korea, while not a household provider for quality content, was beginning to be acknowledged as a hotbed for some excellent revenge thrillers and unique violent stories. Since then, he's gone on to to assist pre-glow up Florence Pugh to have a miraculous 2018, and will soon be directing a highly anticipated S. Craig Zahler penned western horror. And now that I think about it more, Bongs trajectory was quite similar, between his debut in 2000, and his almost marketing revival in 2013, he produced three banger Korean films, the aforementioned crime thriller Memories of Murder, the ecological creature feature The Host, and the psychological thriller Mother. I'm not trying to flex or open a door to elitist discourse, but a majority of the world had no clue who he was before the more accessible Snowpiercer and Okja (I did). And despite the fact that most of those old white boomers voting for the Academy haven't seen the film, his latest awards darling, and second best film, Parasite benefited directly from that aftermath. The western world saw what he was about with Captain America plastered on the cover, and they saw him pop back up all over Netflix with a maniacal Jake Gyllenhaal and fresh off the train Walking Dead Steven Yeun. So it was a no brainer to back this man up and market his next project immediately, which is where A24 done goofed, and Neon came on to the pitch in the best form. 
Those of you who read my Jojo Rabbit review, know that a pivotal point of Parasite and Jojo were spoiled for me. And despite my best attempts to not let it affect my viewing of Parasite specifically, I just feel that having seen just a few seconds of the party scene by innocent scrolling, really bittered my experience with the film. Having seen a particular event play out, paired with my predictive proclivity to piece things together quite fast on my own viewings, really sort of killed the entire third act for me. And frankly, the third act is quite tacked on regardless, as the tonal shift while warranted and gradually built up to, just didn't really hit the highs I think Bong expected. I obviously don't hold any ill regard towards Parasite and it's masterful direction and pacing, intelligent and hilarious script, and magnificent production design. Seriously, this film is what Home Improvement shows wish they looked like, especially with Hong Kyung-pyo’s (The Wailing, Burning, Mother, Snowpiercer) crisp cinematography! I shockingly still had a grand time, even being spoiled. It's not some grand thriller mystery on its own two feet, so I was bound to already see the shift and twists coming based on the eerie poster and how the characters unfold and unravel as the tensions rise. But please, I sincerely urge any of you who like me are late to this 2019 banger, do not watch or read anything. I went in with just the good intentions of trusting Bong's name alone, and seeing the insinuating poster: I didn't even watch the trailer (but then the aforementioned clip hit me on the head by surprise).
Parasite is Bong at his most accessible, which is why this is the film that will make him a household name. It's a shame that so many had slept on this South Korean genius, but I'm very glad to see him getting his pound of flesh. I can already tell the west is going to eat this up and try so hard to imitate and copy it, especially with how hot and obsessed everyone is to strike social commentary gold. Yet despite its serious and timely centric focus on class, capitalism, and the struggle between the haves and the have-nots (the second most popular theme of 2019, after heartwarming feel good vibes), Parasite is a comedy of errors. I was laughing through the entire runtime, save for the last 10-15min, where the lulling rhythmic excellence of the film's themes and build-up really don't stick their landings. And unlike other people, I won't spoil anything that may ruin your experience, but let's just say it still wasn't anywhere nearly as laughably atrocious as Us. Bong knows how to deliver a comprehensive film, even if I'm not the biggest fan of the ending.
Every character with the exception of the Park son and daughter really has some quality development, and the slowly degrading...parasitic...relationship is a wonder to see. And although Song Kang-ho is one of my favourite actors, the standout for me by far was the classy Cho Yeo-jeong's laughably oblivious Mrs. Park. As a whole, I was really on board with the film, but I feel like I'll be placing myself in the minority by stating that I wish Bong cut out the whole epilogue style closing minutes. I would have really appreciated the expected and far more preferred Korean ambiguity. As a matter of fact, I would have actually preferred that he had gone completely off the rails with a real bloody third act twist, in excellent Korean fashion. Alas, the hype for this film is completely warranted, and regardless of having it spoiled, it is one of the best films of 2019, and certainly one of the best products in this year's Oscars. I can see myself viewing this again, with more appreciation for the detail and tasteful pacing. And damn! That was one proper mint house and set they built just for the film.
-
BONG: RANKED
2020 BEST PICTURES: RANKED
KOREAN CINEMA: STARTER PACK
1857. Yorum: Normally I don't go with the grain, but Parasite deserves to be among the best movies of all time.
1858. Yorum: metaphorical
/ˌmɛtəˈfɒrɪkl/
adjective
characteristic of or relating to metaphor; figurative.
1859. Yorum: 
1860. Yorum: As I was watching Bong Joon-Ho's latest film I had the sense that I was watching an absolute classic unfold in front of my very eyes. Every scene, character moment, plot escalation, musical cue & shot just feels 'special', like it's a story told from an absolute master.
Which it absolutely is, in almost every way.
Parasite has the rare ability to reel you in without ever really trying, being somewhat seamless in its execution.
Regardless if your taste leans more mainstream or independent when it comes to film, this is one that transcends that stance and can be for absolutely everyone. I can't think of a single person (including my mum) who I wouldn't recommend this too, which is a stunning achievement particularly for a film of this kind.
I plan on writing more thoughts down as I intend to see this again later this week, but for the time being I'll call this is a borderline masterpiece, tied for my favourite film of the year. Going into this knowing absolutely nothing is essential, you have no clue what's in store for you.
2019 started off a bit rough, but by god has it picked up.
1861. Yorum: literally my 10th time logging this film so you already know how i feel about it
1862. Yorum: I went back to the Sidewalk in Birmingham. This time, to see Parasite before it’s replaced by Honey Boy, and Marriage Story. After not seeing it for a month, it still proves to be just another great film from this year! Bong Joon Ho has outdone himself for making this film! When the Golden Globe nominations come out next Monday, and the Oscar nominations come out next month, I hope to see Parasite get its well deserved nominations, and win its deserved awards.
1863. Yorum: this is IT! this is CINEMA! i am DELIGHTED!!
had an incredible time watching this movie. the acting, the music, the cinematography, EVERYTHING was perfect! there was one little moment that i would’ve changed but other than that i thought it was really really amazing! i am in love!!
1864. Yorum: 2019 Films, Ranked / 5 Star Films
Parasite 111519 @ The Loft Cinema:
Seriously incredible.
1865. Yorum: Parasite continues Bong Joon-Ho's discussion of class consciousness with his signature blend of dark humour, madcap madness, and heart. It is a beautiful film to look at, the performances are all around great, and the soundtrack is a miracle of sorts (as it manages to not only match the ever shifting tone of the script but also to completely bring the audience along and allow them to fully inhabit the wide range of emotional states). Parasite is the full cinematic experience - it will make you laugh, disturb you, and make you think about life as only the most effective satire can. Even though you have probably heard a lot of hyperbolic things by this point, do not be daunted, as Parasite will not disappoint.
1866. Yorum: “it’s free real estate”: the movie
1867. Yorum: Parasite is a crowd-pleaser the same way a roman gladiator match is, but with more doors flying open with new twists than any colosseum could. Like a gladiator fight, it’s morally ambiguous and evocative of political and societal class issues. Even realizing this context, you will still find yourself rooting for things you don’t expect too or want to.
Bong Joon-ho (or Joon-ho Bong), an auteur, unrestrained by genre and intricately adept in theme and moral complexity, sets his latest film Parasite in an upstairs-downstairs Korean world of murky gray waters.
It is transformative, like most of his other work, in that you are constantly watching what the movie is doing, saying, how you feel about it and what it is literally about, changing almost minute by minute before your eyes. It’s the greatest storytelling and use of cinema that there can be--constant thoughtfulness every moment.
It’s delightfully evil in that it is terribly realistic. I haven’t felt so maniacal and rooting for the bad guys since I watched Nightcrawler. It focuses on social inequality and capitalism and its cyclical, parasitic nature. It will leave you wondering who is the real parasite, the lower-class family taking advantage of the rich one or the rich family that feeds off the labor of the lower class family. It begs to ask where it the lowest you can be and then reminds you there is always someone lower.
It’s all so metaphorical.
1868. Yorum: the house itself deserves an oscar
1869. Yorum: watching this film in theaters is such a monumental experience. it’s even better the 2nd time. even more thrilling. even more cultural impactful. a groundbreaking masterpiece.
thank you, bong joon-ho. 
You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. 
1870. Yorum: i don’t even know where to start or what to say. a masterpiece. yes, what i witnessed wasn’t like any film i’ve seen before. i’m still trying to process what happened and i don’t know if i’ll be the same person after this. all i have to say is... so long.
1871. Yorum: I don’t want to spoil anything but I’ll say this:
Korean Steamed Hams
1872. Yorum: 
1873. Yorum: Achso, deshalb wird der so gehyped.
Ein verdammtes Brett. Keine Szene ist fehl am Platz, dafür ist jede meisterlich inszeniert. Soweit, so schon mal ein guter Deal. Aber da fängt Bong Joon-ho gerade erstmal an. Auch die Darsteller, welche er zusammentrommelt und die größtenteils noch gar nicht so viele Filme in ihrer Vita aufweisen können, sind fantastisch, da gibt es ebenfalls keine Schwachstellen. Und die Story ist garantiert die smarteste die ihr dieses Kinojahr erfahren dürft. Wie geschmeidig da von Genre zu Genre getänzelt, wie grazil auf der filmischen Tonleiter auf und ab balanciert und so eigentlich alle Töne auf der emotionalen Klaviatur im genau richtigen Ausmaß, zum genau richtigen Moment, angestoßen werden, ist schlichtweg ergreifend. "Parasite" ist aber nicht nur für das Herz sondern gleichermaßen auch für den Kopf gemacht; die gezeigte Kapitalismuskritik ist so smart wie konfrontativ. Mehr sollte man dann aber gar nicht wissen über diesen fantastischen Geniestreich. Man muss den einfach erleben.
1874. Yorum: Beseelt von Bong Joon Hos Liebe zu Underdogs und seinem großartigen inszenatorischen Können. Allein dafür hat der Film meinerseits einen dicken Stein im Brett. Die zweite Hälfte von PARASITE bereitete mir zunehmend Kopfzerbrechen. Alles in allem aber sehenswert.
1875. Yorum: What a movie!!!! This was definitely one of the most entertaining and profound movies I’ve seen all year. It never wastes a moment, it never stops moving and it’s always unexpected. One moment you can be laughing your ass off and the next you can be clenching your fists because the movie is giving you a panic attack. I can’t believe that a movie I was already so hyped for ended up being better than I was anticipating. You don’t get that anymore. Don’t look anything up and believe the hype, it’s THAT good! 
Side note: Please don’t make a shitty American remake.
1876. Yorum: things i will never be able to look at the same way:
- peaches
- decorative rocks
- hot sauce
- automatic lights
- cinema
1877. Yorum: If you look through a microscope of every corner of people’s lives, you look at the most universal themes of the world with the smallest lens. The continuing Polarization and inequality of our society is as a sad comedy. The gap between rich and poor can be applied to any country across the world in our age. There are people who hope to live with others in a co-existent or symbiotic relationship, but that doesn’t work out, so they are pushed into a Parasitic relationship. Even if you don’t have a villain, bad things can happen. That’s why it’s an unpredictable tragicomedy.
1878. Yorum: Cinema was made for this kind of movies.
A masterpiece !! say no more.
1879. Yorum: totally ludicrous rollercoaster - i thought i had pegged what this movie was about like five times, and each time it took a hard right turn. a truly dark and weird movie about wannabe social climbers shouldn't be this briskly entertaining
1880. Yorum: "And I believe in cinema."
Parasite has so much in it. Heartwarming moments, cool twists and turns, great commentary, and even gripping thrills. I loved the subtle commentary on classicism and how it affects different people. I'm not super familiar with Korean cinema outside of the work of Mr. Joon-Ho, but I can definitely tell you there is some great art just WAITING to burst out of that country - between the actors, writers, and directors. Those last twenty minutes are a masterwork of suspense and Joon-Ho ends it so perfectly. I want more.
Believe that hype train, y'all. Go into this one blind when you see it.
1881. Yorum: the best movie of the year so far. this will be very hard to top. i dont really have anything to say about it that hasnt already been said but i implore all of you who havent seen this yet to see it as soon as you can... and go in blind. its a ride.
1882. Yorum: Brings a whole new meaning to the phrase "party rock is in the house tonight."
Watched with director commentary. It really is that good. Possibly a bit early to call but Bong Joon-ho really might be the best to ever do it.
1883. Yorum: Funny. Scary. Riveting. Timeless. Epic. Perfection.
1884. Yorum: Black and white version because I love cinema but on my phone because I want to disappoint David Lynch like I disappoint my own parents 🤍
1885. Yorum: 
1886. Yorum: “She always ate for two.”
Parasite is an interesting film. The more I think about it the more I realize how brilliant this script was. This movie was basically two different movies within one.
The first half was what I will call a Con-Artist comedy. It actually made me laugh quite a bit. This family stealing jobs within a rich family was very cool. These guys are set up to be unlikeable and bad people but the rich people are also pretty bad too. The rich people are so dumb when I think about it. I’ll get into this more later in the review. The movie is moving pretty good and I’m hooked but then everyone knows who has seen this movie a thing happens that makes the movie do a 180 turn.
In this rich families basement the former housekeeper had been keeping her husband for four years. That couple is creepy as hell. The whole sequence of tying them up and the poor family also trying to escape before the rich people come was nail biting. Also, the scene in the flooded house is heartbreaking. It honestly makes me appreciate the world I live in vs. the movie characters because it’s so sad that a little rain ruined there entire house. 
Finally, we get to the third act. I think this was the part that lowered my grade the most. We all know what happens with the birthday party massacre. That was so damn sad. Like Shutter Island the movie is brilliantly done but such a downer you don’t love it as much anymore. The one other thing that bothered me was how dumb the parents of the rich family are. This was done on purpose but the son literally saw the basement man. They never looked down there afterwards and they never question why he sleeps in a tent some nights. It seems clear he does this because the house is scary as hell yet the parents are too oblivious to see this.
Parasite is not a perfect masterpiece in my opinion but it definitely has good things to say about socioeconomic status and different classes. The actual switch in tones blew me away yet it really did become a downer in that third act. Did this deserve to win Best Picture? I see why it did but I liked other 2019 films better.
1887. Yorum: Als iedereen roept dat een film echt geweldig goed, briljant en fantastisch is, dan ben ik altijd op mijn hoede. Dat zal wel meevallen. Of wellicht dus eerder tegenvallen. Ok. Eerlijk gezegd?... het viel NIET tegen. Dit is echt een geweldige film. Zeer grappig. Heel onverwacht. Zeer mooi gemaakt. fantastische acteurs. ONVOORSPELBAAR GOED! Hij doorloopt ongeveer alle genres. Op een gegeven moment is het heel even zelfs een deuren komedie. LOVE IT. Al die lagen en themas zijn geweldig zonder te storen of pretentieus te zijn. Die regisseur kan er wat van. Ik vond Snowpiercer en The Host ook heel leuk. Maar ik vond OkJa helemaal niet goed. (Oknee dus eigenlijk). Maar nu de teller op 3-1 staat wil ik meer zien van mijn nieuwe Zuid-Koreaanse vriend Bong Joon Ho. (Wat is zijn voornaam? Boon of Ho?)(Beide zijn een beetje grappig) (Ik mag dat vinden... Ik heet zelf Fokke) Samen met Chan-wook Park komt er dus nogal veel geniale cinema uit Zuid_Korea. Met duidelijke eigen stijl en visie. Weet je nog? Visie? Dat was iets leuks he. Vroeger hadden veel mensen dat. Nu zijn er vooral mensen die alles maar automatisch volgen en sommige films allemaal goed moeten vinden. Ik vertrouw die fuckers niet. En soms heb ik dan ongelijk.
1888. Yorum: Rewatched
I'm going to give this a 10. This is top #2 of the decade for me.
The pacing is pretty much perfect. Every scene has a purpose and advances the story. The cinematography is gorgeous, the performances are fantastic and the score is great. It manages to balance many genre's and tones really damn well and it tells a fantastic story while also being a social commentary. There's alot of details and hidden things in the movie that you will probably catch on rewatch. I feel like this is one of those films that will eventually become a classic and people will watch again and again. I now consider this a masterpiece.
1889. Yorum: that moment where the audience go from laughing when moon-gwang is kicked down the stairs to the sudden gasp when she smacks her head off the wall.... literally inject it into my bloodstream, it’s like a drug to me.
1890. Yorum: My mum: i’d never watch a movie with subtitles
Me: listen here you little shit
1891. Yorum: instant death to anyone laughing when the parks are talking about how much mr kim smells while he’s lying under the table... it’s heartbreaking, not hilarious!
1892. Yorum: WHY I DON’T LOVE PARASITE
Usually, whenever a movie is beloved by most but I don’t quite have that same reaction, I just chalk it up to differing tastes and let it be what it is. Parasite, initially, was no exception when I first saw it back in late October (Halloween night, to be exact). When I saw the movie then, I said it was very good, great even, but that something was keeping me from loving it. I was having a hard time figuring out what that was, however, as I couldn’t think of any substantial flaw outside of maybe the last third being a little weaker. So I went on simply liking the movie a fair bit, without fully understanding what was holding it back for me.
However, reading and watching the reviews and reactions to this movie that have come out before and after … damn. The highest rated movie ever on Letterboxd?! A 9.38/10 on Rotten Tomatoes?! And the actual reviews themselves calling it one of the best movies of the decade, making it sound like this mind-blowing, transcendent experience akin to the second coming of Jesus … to say the reaction to this film is positive would be a huge understatement. And because of that, this is one of the few times where I’ve wanted to see a movie a second time solely because of the audience reaction. What was I missing? Why was there this barrier that seemed to exist between me and a film that I couldn’t find many flaws with? Why was I not seeing the masterpiece everyone else saw? Well, after seeing it again, a few things did get a bit better for me, but at the same time it started to finally click where my less enthused reaction had come from … and why, sadly, that reaction remains the same even after two viewings.
But before going into those issues, I’ll go over what makes the film still work so well.
Firstly, let’s just dive straight into the big twist of the movie: the former housekeeper, Gook Moon-gwang, has been hiding her husband in the house’s underground bunker for over four years, in order to avoid the loan sharks he’s indebted to. When the two families discover each other’s secrets, the movie’s narrative shifts from a family conning their way into employment under the Parks to two impoverished families battling for territory right under the Parks’ noses. From what I've read, everyone seemed very shocked by this twist. But while I didn’t see it coming, it didn’t stun me or anything. My main reaction to it was, “Yeah, this feels like it fits.” I thought this way because, well, war between the poor had already been happening beforehand. What the Kims had been doing is essentially targeting innocent lower-class workers in order to take their places, all while the Parks are blissfully unaware of any of it. As well as latching onto the Parks like … well, parasites.
The Kims’ conning in the first half was my favorite aspect of the movie. For one, even someone who’s not financially struggling can tell you that getting employment requires at least some degree of bullshitting and connections. We clearly see (as do the characters) that the Kim family have a lot of skills that make them highly qualified for the jobs they get. And yet they still need to resort to underhanded, dirty methods to get the jobs, methods that ironically could be put to use as a profession in and of themselves. It feeds into a common saying that it’s not what you know that matters, but rather who you know. But that’s just how the system has been set up.
It’s also set up to have those without wealth need to target and step on each other to get ahead … but even then, “ahead” is often a dead-end position underneath those much more well-off. Even at their most prosperous moment – that being their time living in the unoccupied house – the Kims are still not “successful” themselves. They’re still only getting a taste of the life they crave, a taste that they’ll have to leave behind once the Parks return. They remain the insects feeding off of the larger, more dominant animal; it gives them a form of prosperity for the moment, but their positions haven’t changed. And by the end, that remains the case even more so. In spite of their dreaming, fantasizing, and oft-debated planning, they’re all either back where they started or even worse off.
And something I only somewhat noticed the first time around but which stood out crystal clear on second viewing is that, all this time, the Parks are completely oblivious to any power struggle or suffering going on literally under their noses. They show many forms of detachment from the plights of society, not because they don’t care but because they genuinely don’t see it. Nowhere is this more clear than in how they react to the rain. We see the impoverished struggling to stay afloat, their homes flooded, scrambling around in the wreckage that results from the rain. Meanwhile, the next day, Yeon-gyo is expressing how nice the rain was and how it has benefitted the weather today for her son's party (plus, even Da-song's tent allowed him more shelter than the Kims' home!) What one family views as a blessing that brings them joy causes the other family suffering and loss. Mr. Park’s expression of gratitude for the rain as Mr. Kim looks on in pure bitterness is one of my favorite moments in the movie. 
The Parks are well-intentioned, but oblivious. They treat their help with respect and courtesy and seem to genuinely like and respect them, but don’t realize the darkness underlying who they’ve hired. And can you really blame them entirely? Their lifestyle easily allows for this kind of naivety. The Parks’ meaning of “crossing the line” has different connotations for the Kims. Like so much else, what’s innocent and minor to the Parks is deeply cutting to the Kims. What appears to be a commonplace inconvenience, such as a flickering light, comes from a much darker reality.
And yet in a cruel irony, we see how utterly helpless they are without their poor, particularly when they are without a housekeeper for only a week and they’re at a loss regarding how to care for their house. This is what I enjoyed even on first viewing but like even more now: that all the conflict, deception, and bloodshed is done for the purpose of getting shelter under people who are far less competent and intelligent than them, but just so happen to have the riches, resources, and therefore the power.
The directing does a great job of visually representing all of this. The clearest way it does so is in how it plays around with elevation. It’s instantly noticeable that the Parks’ abode is largely underground, in the slums, with a window giving them but a glimpse of something possibly better above them. And then of course the Parks’ house is on this elevated hill, the entryway a set of stairs that makes it seem like you’re ascending into a higher plane every time you enter. And yet within that house is the underground bunker where more impoverished dwell, almost literal bottom-feeders. There’s even a really subtle tilted shot outside of the store where Ki-woo and his friend meet, indicating the very slight step up in luxury that this store represents for the poor child. Then there are other noticeable choices like how the angles allow the poor to even somewhat resemble parasitic bugs, particularly in the rain sequence. It's all great for visually getting its themes across. Additionally, the sets are great, the shots are well-composed, and the cinematography is gorgeous.
… And yet, in spite of all these brilliant elements, things that should be making me drool over this movie … something was keeping me from feeling complete, unrestrained love for it. All of the ingredients are there, but something’s just missing. And I’ve thought for quite some time in order to figure out what that was. What was it that was causing me to view it as less than the sum of its parts? Why was there this distance, this inability for me to fully connect with the story, characters, and overall directing? After watching it a second time, even though I found nearly everything overall a bit better than before, I ended up pinpointing the causes.
The primary one that I finally noticed is that I find that the movie’s direction, while strong for all the reasons I’ve stated, comes across as sometimes distant, cold, and sterile. For me, there are many instances where the scenes and writing didn’t come across as real, natural events that we the audience are witnessing. It instead felt like what it is: a constructed, meticulously planned out story. Which, yes, obviously it all was planned and constructed, as almost all movies are. But movies are supposed to take a constructed situation and make it feel real and spontaneous, as opposed to staged and scripted. I often don’t get that with Parasite. As I watched, half the time all I could see was that planning. That is, it felt so polished and staged to the point of not always feeling human. When characters speak sometimes, I only hear lines written on paper as opposed to something a real person said. When a shot sometimes shows certain imagery, I only see a built set as opposed to a real location. And it’s not because it's bad lines or bad production, not at all. But ... I don’t know, something about the direction just created a sort of barrier between me and the movie.
The best word I can come up with for it is “artificial”. Parasite sometimes feels artificial to me. It’s very meticulous and impressive, yes, but so meticulous that it loses a lot of its humanity. Precise and calculated, but in a way that makes it feel calculated. A movie that’s crafted so deliberately can resonate with me extremely strongly; Kubrick’s done it, David Fincher’s done it, and even someone as inconsistent as Shyamalan has done it. This movie in particular, though, feels like it’s held back a bit by it. Not enough to make the film unenjoyable or less intelligent, but enough to make it less impactful. Even a lot of the humor, while very well-written, felt just the slightest bit stiff, and the violent moments felt very watered down and lacked a sort of punch I feel they needed. 
Because of this, there are large swaths of this movie where I felt nothing emotionally. Not shock, not fear, not happiness. Not boredom, thankfully; I did overall want to know what would happen, and would look forward to what I knew what would happen in the rewatch. But for a good chunk of the scenes, I didn’t find myself truly caring about anyone’s fate or even about the story.
I also feel like the movie doesn’t always take advantage of what it could do with what it shows us versus what it doesn’t, and how it shows them to us. For instance, maybe it could have shown the light flickering earlier on, creating some sneaky foreshadowing that makes the reveal of what’s causing it all the more chilling? Maybe the son having seen a ghost could have been established earlier, again making the reveal of what it is more jolting? Maybe show that the housekeeper is stealing food, only for us to soon realize who it’s actually for? I know she said she bought the food with her own money, but you could have it where she does steal it in this case.
Or, going back to the rain analogy, we see the Parks looking comfortably at the rain from their home, and several minutes later the Kims are suffering in it. Now, how much more powerful would that have been if these two events were shown at the same time? That is, intercut with each other in a single scene? This is a nitpick, I know, but I couldn’t help but think it while watching. It’s things like that which make me consider the movie’s flow to lack conviction, not always having that cleverness or drive to play around with the audience in a way that could really engage with me. The scenes in general just sort of move from one to the next. Sometimes it does something clever in that regard, but not nearly as much as it could have.
I suppose it doesn’t help that the Kims are very immoral people in this. In the end, I ended up feeling far more sorry for the Parks. While both families had someone killed, the Parks did nothing that should warrant someone coming after them. Da-song lost a father for no good reason other than some madman stabbed him completely unprovoked, with the most petty of motivations. That's not even including what they did to the innocent driver and housekeeper (I know she turned out to have a dark side, but they didn't know that at the time). It also makes the plight of their plans going wrong resonate less, since I can't help but now attribute part of their downfall to a form of karma rather than just the system beating them down.
But another source of distance for me is – I’m sorry, I’m just going to say it – the language barrier. I’m not talking about the subtitles; I’ve used subtitles for several English-speaking movies and it was a non-issue. I’m talking about the different dialect, the different speaking mannerisms that come from how people of this country and culture speak. This isn’t a flaw whatsoever, and I’m not at all insinuating that Korean people are harder to empathize with just because they speak differently, or that they shouldn't speak differently. However, because it is different, I don’t get that immersion that can come from how a line is delivered, the intensity and inflections in a character’s timing or how they emphasize certain words the way English speakers do. This creates another layer of disconnect through the whole thing. Again, THIS IS NOT THE MOVIE’S FAULT, OR THE CAST'S. And the actors do great from what I can tell, and Cho Yeo-jeong especially sells her character's personality with just her expressions. It’s just the cultural differences that I’m not able to completely work past. And it could be why so much of the dialogue felt artificial to me: it’s because I could only connect to it on a script level and not a performance level.
As you can tell, pretty much everything about the movie is something I consider at the very least good. But a lot of it just has something … off. Like everything about it is a solid 9/10, but each has that extra 1 point that’s missing. And ultimately, I think that those many 1s just ultimately added up to give me an experience that fall frustratingly short of truly wowing me. Again, to reiterate, these things are not nearly enough to make me dislike the movie. On their own, they’re mostly minor. But combined all together, and I think I finally see why I find it so hard to connect with it more deeply than I do.
In all honesty, I think that I was so swayed by the surrounding hype that it made me assume that I shouldn't find anything wrong with the directing or storytelling. That whatever issues I end up having would have to come from the story itself. But as I separate myself from the hype … no, I think something got lost here. I couldn't fully connect with the movie emotionally. And at the end of the day, it doesn’t matter how smart, thematically rich, or expertly crafted a movie is. If it doesn’t connect with me, there's a problem.
Nonetheless, despite what all these complaints could suggest, I still do really like Parasite and consider it a very good movie. Everything about it is either good or great: the story, the writing, the direction, the visuals, all of it. I just sadly don’t consider it to be as good as the sum of its parts. But thankfully, those parts are all more than strong enough to still make the movie a memorable and enjoyable experience. It’s just a shame that I can’t bring myself to call it much more than that, when an overwhelming majority clearly can.
1893. Yorum: A family is so tired of being poor that they are willin to screw over anyone to get good paying jobs inside the home of a rich family. After a big storm causes an unpredictable change of events, the past ends up knocking on the door of the present. Secrets become harder to conceal and both families must face karma.
This movie mostly lets the rich off the hook, in favor of showin the problems of the poor. A movie like Joker did a much better job of attackin the rich, but I guess that just further explains why the media tried to bury Joker, while hypin up Parasite, which takes it pretty easy on the rich and arguably makes them look innocent.
Nevertheless, this is a solid movie and there's definitely somethin to learn from a story about crabs in a bucket.
1894. Yorum: Saw this at a preview screening ahead of its stupidly late UK release date and wow, the hype was very much real for this film and then some.
Every single cast member is phenomenal (best ensemble 2019), every shot is perfection, and the flood scene alone is one of the best scenes in any movie of this decade. It's just something that Bong Joon-ho knocks out of the park with his best movie since Memories of Murder, an eat-the-rich, anti-capitalist film that succeeds in everything it's trying to do. Can't wait to see this again.
1895. Yorum: I know I previously said that Irishman should win Best Picture, but this movie has changed my opinion on that matter. I don’t care if it isn’t in English.
Bong Joon-Ho has just made a masterpiece of cinema.
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
1896. Yorum: "Aren't we fortunate to be worrying about things like this?"
There are so many moments of pure cinematic joy bumping into one another here that it's almost too much. Most of this is so great that the moments where it dials down to just good jar, but isn't it great that we can have something that fires on all cylinders in such a fashion? Each new architectural exploration of an interior simply blew me away, building the stakes through establishing the present location and then switching genre right in the middle of the room just to make every movement around them feel ten times more exciting. Bong's sense of humour here is somehow more demented than ever, but the whole thing moves at such a pace that every modulation of tone or mood feels simultaneously completely characteristic and absolutely unexpected. It's just a tasty meal of a movie, a proper overload to the emotions that it makes it almost impossible to talk about why it works so well or the subtextual nature of the film on a first tour around its lavish open-plan flooring and dank staircases. Overwhelming cinema.
1897. Yorum: “Class conflict” feels like too simple of a phrase to use after watching Parasite, which is currently my second favorite film of the year. The film feels like something more than that. Bong Joon-Ho’s latest feature, which touches on the inequities that exist across modern-day Korea, is a film that’s as subtle as a series of dits and dahs at one moment only to become as savage as a knife to the heart moments later. And it deserves all the great press it’s getting, as this is what cinema is all about. The film is ambitious, thought-provoking and captivating from start to finish. 
The two families at the heart of the film, the lowly Kim’s and the affluent Park’s, reside on opposite ends of the economic spectrum. As we watch the Kim’s get in with Park’s through a series of schemes that can only be described as Oceans-esque, we applaud their genius, all the while knowing that we’d never approve of if the facade were being carried out at our expense. Nevertheless, we remain firmly on their side. As they successfully integrate one family member after another into the lives of Park family, Bong demonstrates that they are guided less by malice and more so by their own survival. And their struggles are well documented as they are shown, at times, waist and neck deep in a poverty that seems unending and generational. The visual representations of scarcity and abundance in this film were were so spot on and provided some much needed perspective because poverty isn’t just about a lack of money, although having more certainly helps. And it shows once they make their way to their new “home” as the spacious interiors and pleasant views provide a temporary respite from their current abode and some much needed breathing room. The use of interior space (or lack thereof) to emphasize the contrast between the two families and their lifestyles is a major highlight of this film. 
The Kim’s resourcefulness is on full display, but that boundless creativity and energy has its limits and the weariness that is exhibited during the family’s lowest moments is evidence of this fact. “You know what kind of plan never fails?” says Ki-taek to his son. “No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.” This hit me like a ton of bricks. Having limited means or none to draw from at all is exhausting and even the most crafty among us will tire from the burden of trying to get over that economic hump. You could feel it as the film progressed and when you couple that exhaustion with the overall lack of respect that the family received when the Park’s let their guard down, certain outcomes felt inevitable. 
But the Park’s aren’t bad people. And if they aren’t villains, then what justification can one make for their fates? It’s tough to say because there isn’t much sympathy for the upper class in this day and age in South Korea, where the income gap continues to widen and the country continues to grapple with a population that is living longer but still unable to meet their basic needs in the late stages of life. In Parasite, we’re watching the celluloid version of “Hell Joseon,” (a term used by many Koreans today who lament the inequality that exists due to one's social status), which plays out masterfully through the war that erupts between these two families. The Park family isn’t to blame for this, but the fact that they are so far removed from the concerns of the average Korean automatically invites a level disdain that isn’t fully warranted. Though that doesn’t stop one member of the family from exacerbating tensions during a key scene in the film, which cause things to go from bad to worse.  
Films like Parasite are why I’ll never be content with just being “entertained” by a film. Movies are designed to do that, but director Bong has certainly provided us with something that moves beyond entertainment value and into the tier of films that provides a window into our lived experiences across class lines while still being entertaining as hell. 👍🏾👍🏾
NOTE: If you made it this far, thanks for reading. Here’s the recipe for the Steak Ramen that’s featured in the film. Enjoy! 

Steak Ramen
Steak Ramen (Video)
1898. Yorum: 
1899. Yorum: .---- ----- ·-·-· -····- .- -... .-. .. .-.. .-.. .. .- -. - ... --- -.-. .. .- .-.. -.-. --- -- -- . -. - .- .-. -.-- --- -. - .... . -.-. .-.. .- ... ... ... -.-- ... - . -- .. -. ... --- ..- - .... -.- --- .-. . .- --··-- .--. .- .-. .- ... .. - . .. ... .- .-. . ..-. .-. . ... .... .. -. --. .- -. -.. . -..- -.-. .. - .. -. --. --. . -. .-. . -····- -... . -. -.. . .-. --··-- .--. .-. --- ...- .. -. --. .-- .... -.-- -... --- -. --. .--- --- --- -. -····- .... --- .. ... --- -. . --- ..-. - .... . -- --- ... - - .- .-.. . -. - . -.. ..-. .. .-.. -- -- .- -.- . .-. ... --- ..- - - .... . .-. . ·-·-·- . -. .--- --- -.-- -- . -. - ---··· ..... ·-·-· -··-· ..... --.- ..- .- .-.. .. - -.-- ---··· ..... ·-·-· -··-· ..... - .... . .-. . .- .-. . .- .-.. --- - - --- ... .- -.-- .- -... --- ..- - - .... .. ... ..-. .. .-.. -- .- ... -- -.-- -- .. -. -.. ... - .. .-.. .-.. - .-. .. . ... - --- -- .- -.- . ... . -. ... . .-- .... . - .... . .-. .. .--- ..- ... - .-- .. - -. . ... ... . -.. - .... . -... . ... - ..-. .. .-.. -- --- ..-. - .... . -.. . -.-. .- -.. . ·-·-·- -... .-. .. .-.. .-.. .. .- -. - .-.. -.-- .--. .- -.-. . -.. .-- .. - .... .. -. - . .-.. .-.. .. --. . -. - -- . - .- .--. .... --- .-. .- -. -.. ... --- -.-. .. .- .-.. -.-. --- -- -- . -. - .- .-. -.-- --··-- -... --- -. --. .--- --- --- -. -····- .... --- ·----· ... .--. .- .-. .- ... .. - . .. ... .--. . .-. ..-. . -.-. - .-.. -.-- -... .- .-.. .- -. -.-. . -.. --··-- -... --- - .... - --- -. .- .-.. .-.. -.-- .- -. -.. .- . ... - .... . - .. -.-. .- .-.. .-.. -.-- ·-·-·- - --- .--. .-. .- .. ... . - .... .. ... ..-. .. .-.. -- .-- .. - .... --- ..- - ... .--. --- .. .-.. .. -. --. .. - .. ... .- -. .. -- .--. --- ... ... .. -... .-.. . - .- ... -.- -·-·-· - .... . .-. . ..-. --- .-. . --··-- .. .-- .. .-.. .-.. .-. . ... . .-. ...- . -- -.-- - .... --- ..- --. .... - ... ..-. --- .-. .- ..-. ..- - ..- .-. . ... .--. --- .. .-.. . .-. .-. . ...- .. . .-- --··-- .-- .... . .-. . .. .-- .. .-.. .-.. -.. .. ...- . .. -. - --- - .... . -.. . - .- .. .-.. ... --- ..-. - .... .. ... ..-. .. .-.. -- ·-·-·- .- ... ..-. --- .-. -. --- .-- --··-- -... . .-.. .. . ...- . - .... . .... -.-- .--. . -... . -.-. .- ..- ... . .--. .- .-. .- ... .. - . .. ... .- - .-. ..- . -- --- -.. . .-. -. -- .- ... - . .-. .--. .. . -.-. . ·-·-·-
1900. Yorum: Parasite lives up to the hype. Bong's latest film is nearly impossible to describe, shifting recognizable genres with glee, but never becoming boring or too obvious. The ensemble and direction are stellar, and all around, it's simply remarkable. This is going to be a much shorter review than usual because Parasite is still in limited release, and, just like everyone say, it should be watched with as little knowledge as possible. I eagerly anticipate rewatching it in a few weeks and having more to say on it, but for now, this is truly impressive in so many ways.
1901. Yorum: Parasite is Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece. It's a monumental achievement of film that's far and away my new favorite film of the year, and I really don't see it being topped quite honestly.
It's got everything. It's fun, it's dramatic, it's nail-bitingly thrilling, it's hilarious, it's heartbreaking, it's beautiful, it's horrifying. It does it all, and it does it all with such ease and style.
It's this haunting, brilliant tale exploring the divide between social classes, and it conveys that in such a fucking brilliant way, which I won't even dare spoil or hint at. But it just takes a look into the minds, the worries, the priorities, the lifestyles of both the absolute highest class families and the rock bottom of lowest class families. They way they echo each other, and the comments the film has on these class divides are phenominally well conveyed.
It's also this deep web of lies and deceit, the age old expression "fake it till you make it" is maybe the perfect quote to summarise this movie with. Seeing the characters continue these lies and these tricks is fun in its own right, there's a portion of this movie that's an incredibly fun movie that's dripping with sarcastic, dark humour.
But as conflict inevitably arises, HOLY SHIT! This movie delivers on the heart racing, gut wrenching suspense that could rival most horror movies for the tension it builds. There were moments in here I wanted to crack up laughing, and moments where I felt I was physically about to puke from how much literal gut wrenching suspense is built.
That's the phenominal part of this movie. It dips it's toe into so many genres, and every single one it pulls of with absolute perfection. It's comedy, it's drama, it's thrills, they're all immaculate. Bong Joon-ho is just flexing with this movie how much control he has behind the camera. Every scene is so intresting, wether it be from the great writing, to the way he directs his actors, to the choices in editing, sound, shot composition, it's all perfect.
The performances are phenominal. Everyone's great. Both families have such a clear dynamic that's brought to life by the cast. The standout for me was Song Kang-ho as Kim Ki-taek, he did a phenominal job and he gets so many fantastic scenes and fantastic moments in here. However, they're all great here.
While I don't want to directly allude to any of the metaphors, the symbolism, the plot details, for fear of spoilers (there is a lot there, and a lot to dissect however) I'll say the visual contrast between the locations in this movie is great. The production design was incredible, the dingey, gross, semi-basement contrasted with the sleek, modern, spotless upper class home speaks volumes for the films thematic depth.
As I said, this is Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece for sure, it's absolutely phenomenal stuff, and will probably end up being my favorite film of the entire year. Believe the hype on this one, it's jawdropping stuff.
The campaign for Bong Joon-ho's Best Director Oscar begins now
1902. Yorum: Parasite or: how to ruin a good movie with your "too much" tendency, accumulated metaphors and a bad ending.
1903. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's masterfully crafted Palme d'Or winning, Parasite, is a remarkable depiction on class disparity by blatantly emphasizing parasitism as a social phenomenon. While the title itself is a dehumanizing metaphor, the film as a whole is far from it. It's unimaginably humane in its own way, thanks to the Korean auteur's eccentric perspective and playful approach. It is fresh, convincing, and to say the least, enthralling. And right on top of it, Parasite is perfected by Bong's effective trope subversion, making it worthy of all recognition, hype, and praise it got. An instant classic and without hesitation, the best movie of 2019 (at least so far, it will surely be a hard one to top).
2019: Ranked, updated.
1904. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho‘s „Parasite“ ist wirklich eine außergewöhnliche Seherfahrung. Der Film lässt sich nie in eine Genre Schublade packen, nimmt sich stattdessen von gefühlt jedem Genre Elemente und kreiert dadurch ein zu jederzeit unvorhersehbares Spektakel aus allen möglichen Emotionen. Ich hab gelacht, war ergriffen und schockiert. Und das alles innerhalb weniger Minuten. Einen großen Teil dazu tragen vor allem die Figuren und der fantastische Cast bei. Keine Figur ist irgendein bekanntes Rollenbild, keine Dynamik eine schon vorher oftmals gesehene und das Schauspiel ist in jeder Szene so in Point, dass ich wirklich allen jeden Moment und jede Reaktion und Aktion abgenommen habe. Dazu kommen dann noch unverschämt gut geschriebene Dialoge die es schaffen Spannung aufzubauen, witzig zu sein und zwischen den Zeilen was zu erzählen. 
Im Endeffekt geht es um die Klassenungleichheit in Südkorea und Bong Joon-ho reduziert das ganze auf zwei, jeweils repräsentative Familien. Die Idee hat mir generell schon sehr gut gefallen, weil der Film so das große Ganze beleuchten, aber eben auch weiterhin persönlich bleiben kann. „Parasite“ macht aber noch mehr daraus und der Film lässt sich auch ohne Blick auf diese Erzählebene wunderbar genießen. Grade weil die Eskalation funktioniert und trotz Foreshadowing wie aus dem Nichts kommt. Unterhaltung und inhaltlicher Mehrwert geben sich die Hand. Einzig ein paar kleine Plotholes im ansonsten sehr guten Drehbuch stören für mich das Gesamtbild und auch mit der Gestaltung der letzten paar Szenen war ich nicht so ganz zufrieden.
1905. Yorum: i missed the point of the movie because i wanna be yeon-gyo so bad when i grow up. rich housewife who’s not actually a housewife calling up all my friends to get “drunk in the daytime” for my sons birthday. she’s an icon
1906. Yorum: First time watching this in Black and White, loved it a lot because it felt like i was watching it again for the first time but definitely doesn't feel like it was made to be in b&w. The shot of Guen-Sae’s eyes in the flashback was truly haunting though
1907. Yorum: Ainda bem que reassisti, agora é 10/10...
Não consigo fazer uma review para esse filme, ele tem tantas coisas para falar e se queixar sobre, e tanta coisa para elogiar, mas fico muito feliz de ter reassistido, agora com novos olhos.
Antes era um 4.5, agora é um 5.0.
Nota: 10/10 aqui um 5.0/5.0
1908. Yorum: ate a peach while watching this #cinematicexperience
1909. Yorum: anyways
1910. Yorum: À parte da crítica social contundente e escancarada não imaginei que fosse meio que uma sitcom. Podem culpar o sistema mas o problema é e sempre foi o indivíduo e onde houver a oportunidade haverá um parasita, independentemente da classe social. Se me arrependo de ter demorado tanto tempo pra assistir? Nem um pouco. É um ótimo filme, mas não a oitava maravilha do mundo.
1911. Yorum: 
1912. Yorum: i rewatched this in b&w alternative and that face peeking out of the basement became even scarier than it actually was
1913. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho take a bow. That was spectacular! The most random plot twist I never saw coming changed the entire dynamic of this movie, that I was already thoroughly enjoying. 
What started off as a clever idea, with superb acting and excellent writing, turned shortly after into a suspenseful thriller - as if the movie is split into two complete separate genres.
I don’t know how I managed to not watch this film since it’s release until now and even more importantly, I somehow avoided all spoilers so this was a fresh enjoyable watch.
I was unsure if I was going to rank this movie as a 4.5 or 5.0, it all depended on how it was going to summarise the story. I couldn’t have hoped for a better ending. It was almost poetic and ironic given the circumstances. Delicately perfected.
An observation I had: around the 54 minute mark the father of the house is wearing pretty much the identical costume to The Joker in The Dark Knight (2008) during his jail scenes - is this a coincidence, or another attention to detail? Either way, it’s something I spotted immediately as a Heath Ledger Joker fanatic. Go and watch this now if you’ve never seen it before! I watched in its original audio with English subtitles.
1914. Yorum: Wow. I mean just wow. That was a cinematic masterpiece. That was literally perfect. How tf- this was insane I'm lost for words. A well crafted fuckin masterpiece of a movie. I loved every second of this holy shit. I really didn't expect things to go down like that. One of the best movies I've ever witnessed
A 5 starts without a doubt in my mind
1915. Yorum: It’s just so good
1916. Yorum: Seoultember 2023
Film Nr. 9
Im Rahmen unseres Seoultembers wurde es endlich mal wieder Zeit für einen erneuten Rewatch von Parasite.
Nicht ohne Grund sorgte Bong Joon-ho’s geniale Abhandlung über den Klassenkampf und die Gesellschaftsstrukturen in Südkorea und die immer größer werdende Arm-Reich-Schere für mächtig Furore und gab dem südkoreanischen Kino mit seinem Oscargewinn den verdienten Push zu einer breiteren öffentlichen Wahrnehmung in der westlichen Welt.
Dabei möchte ich jetzt gar nicht allzu sehr auf den Film an sich eingehen, darüber wurde schon sehr vieles gesagt, auch ich habe meine Begeisterung ihm gegenüber schon das ein oder andere Mal zum Ausdruck gebracht, weswegen ich diesbezüglich nur sagen kann, dass auch der x-te Rewatch dem Film kaum etwas von seiner Wirkung raubt und mir erneut die extreme Kurzweiligkeit aufgefallen ist.
Jedoch habe ich Parasite heute zum ersten Mal in der Schwarz-Weiß-Version gesehen und dies war nochmal ein besonderes Erlebnis.
Laut einem Interview sind für Regisseur Bong Joon-ho alle Filmklassiker in schwarz-weiß, weswegen er auch bei den Dreharbeiten zu Parasite darauf achtete, dass es auch möglich wäre, den Film in schwarz-weiß zu veröffentlichen. Von daher ist es hier nicht nur eine simple Nachbearbeitungsspielerei, schon während des Drehs wurde darauf geachtet, den Film so auszuleuchten, die Szenen und Settings so zu gestalten, dass man ihn auch ohne Farbe betrachten kann und er nichts von seiner Wirkung verliert. Bong Joon-ho war jedoch auch so ehrlich zu sagen, dass dies aus reiner Eitelkeit passierte und der schwarz-weiß-Look keine weitere Bedeutung oder Ebene enthielt, weshalb er sich auch dagegen entschied, den Film erstmals in schwarz-weiß zu veröffentlichen.
Und nein, Parasite wird durch diesen anderen Look nicht besser, jedoch funktioniert er immer noch genauso gut und ja es stimmt, durch die fehlenden Farben fällt der Fokus auf ganz andere Dinge, das brillante Schauspiel der einzelnen Darsteller drängt sich viel mehr in den Vordergrund, die Art der Erzählung und der Einsatz der Musik wird weniger vom Look überboten und dieser neue Stil passt sehr gut zur Vermischung der Genres und der Geschichte, die sich tonal immer mehr wandelt und die plötzlich eine ganz neue Richtung einschlägt. Die Symbolik der Treppen und des Aufs und Abs, all das verliert auch durch die fehlenden Farben nichts von seiner Wirkung, sondern kann diese auf andere Art vielleicht sogar noch etwas intensiver und fokussierter entfalten.
Ja, der schwarz-weiß-Look ist nicht mehr als eine Spielerei, ein netter Bonus, der den Film wie gesagt nicht maßgeblich besser macht, der aber gerade für einen Rewatch sehr gut funktioniert und im wahrsten Sinne des Wortes einen neuen Blick auf eine bekannte, geniale Geschichte bietet!
#seoultember
1917. Yorum: IMDB Top 250 Movie #36: Parasite 
I remember watching this In theaters when it came out in 2019 and I was so sucked in and mesmerized by everything, that I didn’t even realize there were subtitles 😂😂same rules applied this viewing. FLIPPING LOVE THIS MASTERPIECE!
1918. Yorum: Sight & Sound top 100
Ranked #93
Completion 32/100
The complexity of class division and wealth disparity is presented so masterfully by Bong. The typical framework for rich vs poor is turned on its head and operates in a alternative framework that what is normally put forward.
The night of the rain storm is one of my favourite chapters in cinema. Legitimate excellence.
1919. Yorum: it still holds up. such a mix of the best parts of movies — humor and horror and heist, all rolled up into class commentary and beautiful cinematography. what’s more fun: the peach plan or the descent into the basement for the first first time?
1920. Yorum: I do like this film. I don’t have the complete adoration for it as many others do. I don’t find it to be perfect, or do anything super original, but I can’t argue it’s an effective popcorn flick while also being a great satire on an admittedly tired topic (Hierarchy/Rich Vs Poor).
One of my favorite sub-genres/themes/tropes/plot-points (I dunno what exactly it would be called) are films where people or a person has to cover something up or hide without being caught. I find it to be an ever-exciting way of creating tension and comedy and it’s just fun as hell to watch. So scenes where they’re hiding under the table or racing around to clean up a mess before the owners get home or kicking a lady down the stairs to cover up their crimes are scenes that I can’t help but love watching.
I think the end is a bit of a mess and there are scenes in this film that feel longer than needed but overall not a whole lot of complaints.
Is it overrated? I dunno, I think it’s a film that’s up there in the “good to great Korean films” but if you’ve watched many Korean films you know how good they can be. I think this film blew up at a perfect time where it was accessible for enough people who don’t usually watch foreign films and probably won’t watch many more.
Number of watches: 3
1921. Yorum: I'm very obsessed with Ki-Jung's beauty 😍 also her acting looks so good
Parasite is the trully called "cinema experience" as Korean 2010s movies
here Song Kang-ho with natural acting and always good with director Bong Joon-ho, Great pacing, Visual, and beautiful color palette, love when I see the basement scene the visual was very beauty.
Great dialogue with kinda explicit because they're put some sarcasm comedy. the plot twist really deep, and the thriller looks so real & hard emotionally and that's why this movie had a deep meaning & over time the story becomes heavy but still okay I'm really enjoyed this movie.
Simple morality to understand: when you rich you're a good person, but if you turned poor, please always be kind because poor doesn't mean you became a bad person. so always charity, be friendly with society (even thought you're a quiet person), and don't forget to worship the almighty
1922. Yorum: better late than never
1923. Yorum: "With no plan, nothing will go wrong"
I dont know why it took me this long to finally have gotten around to watching this but i am glad i finally did. Bong Joon-ho, quit making such great thrillers man
1924. Yorum: 
1925. Yorum: “you can’t go wrong with no plans.”
this is insanely fucking good why did i wait so long to watch this
1926. Yorum: Watch it with your Family
"You know what kind of Plan never fails? No Plan at all. If you make a Plan, Life never works out that Way."
My Opinion about Bong's masterfully socially-critical Reckoning remains the same as 2 Years ago in Cinema... Wow, what an Art-Piece, which everybody can discover and think about!
My Mom actually watched it 2 Weeks ago and it's truely been a while, since she talked so much and fascinated about a Movie in Television... really enjoyed her Enthusiasm!
But 1st Place on the Letterboxd-List... I still don't get very warm with that Fact.
"Dad: They're rich but still nice.
Mom: They're nice because they're rich!"
But nevermind, "Parasite" is a modern Masterpiece, which finally brought the South-Korean Movie-Wrought its well deserved, global Attention and deals with a delicate Topic, in a pretty unique, partly funny-entertaining Way, that actually sounds absurd, but corresponds to the sad Truth of the korean System.
Mustsee!
"Today the Sky is so Blue and no Pollution! Thanks to all the Rain yesterday!"
1927. Yorum: i can see why this is the highest rated movie on letterboxd goddamn, it's so good at building suspense.





that fucking party scene
1928. Yorum: 🎃 Spook-tober Fest - Night 4 🎃
A destitute family gets jobs involved with a wealthy family which get into messy entanglements.
Umm... WHAT?!?!
I try to go in as blind as possible, and I'm shaken to my core. Truly.
I'm sorry I've waited this long. I wasn't prepared at all for what this was, especially the ending at that party.
🎃🎃🎃🎃🎃 - WTFs
Warning: Rated R. Some sex, no nudity, a TON of Profanity and Violence.
1929. Yorum: park so-dam, the original girlboss.
1930. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho has crafted on of the most engrossing and intriguing international films of the past 20 years. Parasite portrays several powerful themes like classism and prejudice with a story that keeps you thoroughly engaged, surprised and shocked. The film contains one of the most surprising twists that audiences have ever seen as it shows the repercussions of the nefarious actions a poor family makes in order to find success and take advantage of those who are better of financially. After deservedly winning the Academy Award for Best Picture, this film will go down as one of the best of the century. 
Raiders of the Lost Podcast
1931. Yorum: Swipe all the awards off the table and watch Parasite on its own terms, ignorant of the plaudits and the same end result is achieved. You really would struggle to see a better film inside the year this was released.
There are rich pockets of beauty everywhere we look with nuanced writing that straddles comedy and tragedy as it creates a twisting, entertaining dramatic narrative around carefully thought-out characters, each of who have a significant role to play. Nothing is surplus and everything has meaning. You can dive as deep as you like.
1932. Yorum: As an Asian person, I can confirm that we all have those, um, items in the basement.
1933. Yorum: Every time I watch this I pick up on something new. Bong Joon-ho really saved the film industry huh.
1934. Yorum: This is a reality check movie.
I was wrong, this is a funny comedy movie!
It has crazy cinematography too!
I was wrong again.... what is going on?
Ok... this is a horror movie.
ok what the hell
ok wow
1935. Yorum: 97
It’s hard to find many films better than this.
1936. Yorum: Ja, groß den Mund fusselig reden muss man sich nun nicht mehr über den Film. Klares Meisterwerk, wie es Bong Joon-ho einfach geschafft hat einen Streifen mit einer so ernsten sozialkritischen Thematik gleichermaßen aufwühlend, leichtfüßig und unterhaltsam zu gestalten, da ist der Oscar für den besten Film wirklich verdient. Alleine einige Darstellerleistungen waren mir, für meinen Geschmack ein klitze zu drüber beizeiten insbesondere die Tochter. Aber das is natürlich Nitpicking auf hohem Niveau. Habe mir nach dem Kinobesuch nochmal ein wenig Zeit gelassen, und ihn mir diesmal im O-Ton angesehen. Wirkt auch beim zweiten mal sehen.
Fazit: Unbedingt ansehen. The Hype is Real!!
1937. Yorum: 
1938. Yorum: Just reminding everyone that this is a 5 without question. All of these lame-asses crying over a foreign movie winning at the oscars are pathetic WORMS. 
PARASITE
IS 

ONE 

OF 

THE 

BEST 

FILMS 

I’VE 

EVER 


SEEN


AND IT DESERVES IT. 
Joker can suck my ass.
1939. Yorum: My third time around the house, celebrating such a momentous day in film history. To all the people finally deciding to give this a shot in wake of the Oscars: RESPECT!
1940. Yorum: we did it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! congratulations everyone
1941. Yorum: 2019 Ranked
The hype is well deserved, Parasite is a masterwork. This film is jammed packed with ideas all executed thoughtfully. Some random thoughts after an initial viewing:
- The way genres are used, transitioned into, bent, and combined is an incredible feat. At no time does the film feel jarring in its shifts but rather an organic or inevitable journey.
- I almost always need a second viewing to really appreciate a score but this one stands out, really complementing the tonal and genre shifts.
- I love a good monkey's paw or cursed object story, and the rock in Parasite certainly pays off in a big way.
- Performances are incredible across the board, not a single misstep among them.
- I love the subtle and sometimes not so subtle touches that help to highlight the differences between the worlds, particularly the juxtaposition of sunshine and high altitudes versus rain/sewage and literally living underground (even at small depths).
- So many memorable scenes and shots - sitting on a toilet, getting frisky on a couch, an elderly woman completely horizontal to push open a storage case. These images will last.
- Full of both jaw dropping and laugh out loud moments, incredible balanced.
- Thematically wonderful. Very interesting visualizations of haves and have nots, how people can get stuck in their lot and even be happy to be there, and some interesting parallels to other cultures and how the rich can cluelessly judge and appropriate.
- Definite exploration of the rich pitting poor against poor, might be a good double bill with Blue Collar
1942. Yorum: Third time and it felt like the first time I watched it, even when I knew what was coming I was on the edge.
Thank you Bong!
1943. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's Korean dark comedy is fiendishly funny right from the outset, starting out with a poor family managing to con their way into the lives of a wealthy family and their home, setting the stage for a pin-sharp satire of class and privilege; while much of it is directly pointed at the massive inequality and social divides in Korean society, those ideas are so universal that they translate very well. The direction is intelligent and intricately precise, especially the way it moves around the home that makes up the majority of the running time and how the characters sneak through it, and carefully balancing an evolving tone with characters who are selfish and opportunistic, even if they are rich enough to be outwardly 'nice'. If it was simply an amusing-but-sinister farce, this would still be one of my favourite films of this year, but the way the story progresses adds a whole other dimension to the premise, becoming something altogether unexpected. That is what gives the movie a real punch to it that is very much in keeping Joon-ho's previous work like The Host, especially in a show-stopping conclusion that simply left me stunned. Parasite is a movie that is best to go into knowing as little about it as possible and just become completely immersed in an entertaining and daring piece of work. I was totally absorbed from start-to-finish, and I think this may well be my favourite film of 2019, it is an absolute treat.
1944. Yorum: robbing the next rich family that i see
1945. Yorum: I almost have no words. You take a film, where your preconception of how events will turn out in the beginning, are completely spun on their head by the end. Masterful. It's a blending of genres, that doesn't feel tacked on, cheap, played out, or ignorant. A film that must be seen to be believed. Bong Joon-ho, I sincerely thank you. For restoring my faith in film-making. For breaking boundaries.
"Once you overcome the 1 inch-tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films." - Bong Joon-ho
1946. Yorum: Took my friend and grandma to see Parasite. Sold out showing middle of the day. GREAT AUDIENCE. Plus surrounded by people I care about made it even better. Seeing, hearing and Turning towards them to see their reactions were the best. Planning on taking them to 1917 next.
1947. Yorum: I’m starting the year strong by watching this masterpiece... film made me feel every single emotion imaginable. an absolute rollercoaster, worth the hype alls I’m saying
1948. Yorum: The reveal that the stair lights are not automatic is one of the best movie moments of 2019.
1949. Yorum: معنى طُفيلي : كائن حيُّ يعيش متطفلا على كائن حيّ آخر في داخله أو خارجه، وهذا هو قصة هذا الفيلم 
الحبكة والإخراج عظيمين والكوميديا السوداء خفيفة في الفيلم ولم تكن مبالغ فيها و استخدام الموسيقى في الفيلم كان مذهل وبعض المرات كان مضحك  
مشهد عيدالميلاد في نهاية الفيلم كان مقشعر ومخيف 
من سلبيات الفيلم بالنسبة لي هو لو أطالو في الجزئية الاولى من الفيلم لو اقل شي أكملوا احداث يوم أخر والسلبية الثانية هو النهاية لم افهمها 
أول فيلم كوري أشاهده 🇰🇷
أفضل فيلم لسنة 2019 بالنسبة لي 
1950. Yorum: 
1951. Yorum: jaw: on the floor
wig: in space
heart: in my throat
jeff bezos: guillotined
1952. Yorum: Wow. Okay, this definitely lived up to the hype.
Bong Joon-Ho's film has been building a massive buzz and within its first hour you can totally see why... but then there's another 60 minutes that keeps you guessing, jaw dropping and sweat popping every step of the way.
It is just a monolith of original ideas and entertaining moments.
I'd have to agree with everyone and their cousin that it's best to go into this with knowing as little as possible, but basically it starts with the son of a poor family getting a rare opportunity to fill in for his friend as a tutor to the young daughter of a rich family.
Sure enough... C A L A M I T Y E N S U E S!!!
And if we're going with the Calamity Ensues cliche, I can picture Bong Joon-Ho waking up every day with a giant cup of coffee and then injecting himself with the purest form of calamity to write such a twisty, nuanced, tonal shifting, symbolism packing, dark comedy adventure of misfortunes.
I've tried writing a paragraph about the flaws and then deleting it about 7 times now and that's just a sign that regardless of what didn't work for me this is a film I wholeheartedly recommend because you deserve to watch a NEW movie that is EXCITING and INTELLIGENT and those words need to be in massive caps.
Excellent.
1953. Yorum: I hesitate to use the m-word that so many have flung at PARASITE, but I don't blame them. It is utterly wild. Absolutely bonkers narratively. It’s a film that's equal parts hilarious, tense, horrific, and ultimately tragic. How Bong Joon-ho seamlessly, and slyly, transitions between those tones is incredibly astonishing. Dramatically it's very riveting, but as a heartbreaking (ahem) metaphorical look at class and the inevitable truth of always being trapped, it's profoundly moving.
I could sit here and write another 5000 words, but I'll just urge you to hear our full review on #350. We spend nearly 50 minutes talking about the film and I have sooooo much to say about it there. One of the best of 2019, no doubt about it.
1954. Yorum: Engaging; funny; important; poignant; provocative; quirky; smart; suspenseful; timely; unpredictable; unsentimental; well-acted; well-crafted; well-paced.
1955. Yorum: Todo lo bueno que leáis sobre Parásitos es cierto. Menuda montaña rusa de géneros, tonos narrativos y emociones. Bong Joon-ho vuelve a mostrar su inmenso talento y va directo y a pasos agigantados a convertirse en uno de los grandes maestros del cine del siglo XXI.
1956. Yorum: Damn
1957. Yorum: I don't have much to say. Flawless film, one of the greatest I've seen. It's really true that you should know nothing before seeing it, I was constantly surprised.
I'd like to point out the combination of slow motion and music in this, it is Kubrick/Wes/Lanthimos-level perfect. Glorious.
1958. Yorum: “Respect!”
It slaps. It slaps so fucking hard.
1959. Yorum: Film. Des. Jahres. Ohne jede Frage. Ich werde auch ausschließlich für Parasite eine Regel brechen, welche ich mir dieses Jahr in den Kopf gesetzt und bis heute immer brav befolgt habe. Keine 5-Sterne Ratings mehr nach einem first watch. Dieser Film hier, Bong Joon-ho's Meisterwerk ist dafür eine Ausnahme, denn ich akzeptiere selber keine niedrigere Wertung als das Maximum was geht. Auf mich bezogen, wie die anderen ihn bewerten bleibt denen überlassen!
Wie soll man allerdings eine Kritik zu einem Film beginnen, bei dem man am besten so Blind wie möglich reingeht? Keine Informationen über die Handlung, nicht mal ein ganz kleiner Funken von der Prämisse sollten diejenigen erfahren, welche Parasite nicht gesehen haben. Rein gar nichts. Ihr nehmt euch nur den eigenen Spaß wenn ihr über den Film recherchiert, glaubt mir. Was ich aber sagen kann ist, das der Trailer von dem Film nichts vorweg nimmt, wirklich nichts, zumindest ist das meine Meinung dazu. Ich werde deshalb gezielt die Narrative überspringen und einfach gleich zu den anderen Punkten kommen, zu welchen man was Spoilerfrei sagen kann! Es tut mir wirklich Leid, aber jede einzelne Information über die Handlung ist ein einziger Spoiler, verzeiht mir! 😥
Narrative (So wenig wie möglich)
Na schön, ein wenig werde ich verraten, aber nichts das euch beim selbstständigen Erlebnis schaden wird, versprochen! Bong Joon-ho vermischt hier gezielt mehrere Genren miteinander, und dies auch noch so geschickt, dass das alles wie am Schnürchen läuft. Nie hat man das Gefühl, das etwas falsch sondern eher alles am rechten Platz wirkt. So bekommt man sehr viel von einer Komödie mit, aber hauptsächlich bezieht sich Parasite auf den Unterschied zwischen Arm und Reich im heutigen Südkorea. So fällt der Anteil des Comedy-Bereichs zuerst klein aus, steigert sich aber immer weiter rein, was mit dem grandiosen Finale seinen Höhepunkt hat. Ich halte ein Wort gezielt vor euch geheim und ich glaube diejenigen, die den Film bereits gesehen haben, wissen vermutlich auch schon welches. Was ich noch sagen kann ist, das Parasite den Zuschauer durch jede Emotionslage schickt, ohne den Wechsel zwischen ihnen zu bemerken. Man ist fröhlich und lacht, schockiert und traurig, glücklich aber doch angespannt, all das, was mir in diesem Jahr bis jetzt gefehlt hat.
Schauspieler
Ich weiß nicht genau welcher Film aus diesem Jahr Parasite vom Thron schlagen soll, wenn es zum Cast kommt. Kann ich überhaupt etwas zu den Darstellern sagen, ohne was zu Spoilern? Ich werde mal mein bestes geben, auch wenn ich mir nicht so ganz sicher bin ob ich es denn schaffen kann!
Ich war bis zu meinem jetzigen Tag selten von einem Cast so begeistert wie von diesem hier. Es sind große Worte, ich weiß, aber ich kann es wirklich nicht anders formulieren, als so. Mit meiner nächsten Aussage werde ich vermutlich den Hass jeder auf mich ziehen, aber das lass ich nur zu gerne zu. Ich würde die Schauspieler von 기생충, Rom; gisaengchung immer einem Cast wie dem von OUATIH vorziehen. Das ist meine Meinung und die kann man nicht ändern. Song Kang-ho hat sich mit diesem Film ein für alle mal in die Ränge meiner Lieblinge hochgearbeitet. Er hat schon vorher oft bewiesen wie hoch er seine Künste treiben kann, aber mit Parasite hat er den Vogel komplett abgeschossen. Ich würde schon die Worte "Oscar reif" in den Mund nehmen, jedoch wissen wir das die Academy einen fick darauf gibt und Darsteller nominiert, welche es vermutlich nicht mal wirklich verdient hätten. Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik, Lee Jung-eum, Chang Hyae-jin und vor allem Park So-dam geben zusammen mit dem großartigen Song Kang-ho für mich den wohl besten ab, welcher mir jemals untergekommen ist. Der Absatz würde viel zu lange gehen, würde ich jeden einzelnen ein paar Sätze widmen, deswegen sei euch gesagt, ihr werdet vermutlich keine besseren Performances in diesem Jahr sehen als hier. Das fasst diesen hochkarätigen, südkoreanischen Cast wunderbar zusammen.
Alles andere
Vielleicht hat man meine Liebe zu Parasite schon raus lesen können, was mich aber auch nicht wundern würde, da es der Film war, auf dem ich mich am meisten gefreut habe und meine bereits gesetzten Erwartungen sogar nochmal übertreffen konnte.
So war ich am Ende aber nicht überrascht, wie Detailreich die Cinematography und das Set Design denn sind. Hong Kyung-pyo hat schon in The Wailing und Snowpiercer sein überaus talentiertes Händchen bewiesen und mit diesem Film hier vermutlich sein eigenes Lebenswerk erschaffen. Der Unterschied zwischen Arm und Reich, die damit verbundenen Leben jeder Figur und noch vieles mehr wird hier mehr als deutlich und mit viel liebe zum Detail dargestellt wie ich es eigentlich gar nicht erwartet hatte. Es brachte einfach so viele schöne Bilder hervor, welche ich gerne hätte einfangen wollen, aber nicht konnte. Dasselbe gilt für den Score, welcher zusammen mit den Bildern eine Atmosphäre erschafft, die auf der einen Seite so Hell wie der Tag, aber auf der anderen Seite so Dunkel wie die Nacht ist. Eben genauso wie der Klassenunterschied in diesem Film. Definitiv ein weiteres Highlight von 기생충.
Ende
Falls ihr wegen all dieser guten Bewertung noch immer Skepsis habt, so vertraut doch bitte mir und geht euch Parasite angucken. Bong Joon-ho hat einmal mehr bewiesen, das er ein Händchen für ein tolles Drehbuch hat und somit auch ein geborener Schreiber für solche ist, egal ob seine Filme oder andere.
Meine Bitte an euch, welche ihr bestimmt nicht zum ersten mal hört:
Informiert euch nicht über diesen Film. Lest keine Kritiken durch, von denen ihr wisst das da vermutlich Spoiler enthalten sind. Geht so Blind wie möglich in diesen Film rein, denn anders werdet ihr ihn nicht so genießen können wie andere. Mein Film des Jahres 2019, mit großem Abstand.
1960. Yorum: Parasite is an absolute masterclass in storytelling 
Going places nobody could expect, it never loses focus on the key matters at hand
Very funny, deeply heartbreaking, and brutally honest, Bong Joon-Ho has crafted characters that feel entirely authentic, but more importantly, a family dynamic that subtly creeps up on you. It feels legitimate, as if they have been living together all their lives, long before filming started
This film has so much to say about class, about family, and about internalizing emotions and using them as a driving force in whatever you set out to do
I can’t believe the direction Parasite took, and even when I thought I had it figured out, it continuously threw my suspicions out the window in favor of something much more riveting
Go into this film as blind as possible, because my god, its brilliance unravels before you in one of the most nuanced and unexpected ways i’ve seen this year
1961. Yorum: I was on my way to The Exorcist at Beyond Fest when I heard Friedkin dropped out of the Q&A and my friends would no longer be going but then the Arclight tweeted about a contest to win tickets to the premiere of Parasite and an hour later and I won and now I’m sitting next to Flying Lotus in the front row at the premiere of Parasite. You see how it all evens out for me?
1962. Yorum: Would make for a great double feature with Ready Or Not, which could be titled “Do Rich People Deserve Rights?”
1963. Yorum: 
1964. Yorum: I hate people who yell about spoilers but: spoil this movie and GO TO JAIL
1965. Yorum: bong joon-ho has made a film unlike anything i've ever seen before, his other movies have great craft and are really enjoyable (i've only seen his english films so correct me if i'm wrong) but this is just transendant filmmaking. i've never seen a film be so many things and dip into a ton of genres such comedy, drama and thriller yet be undefinable as a whole, unlike anything i've previously seen from bong joon-ho, i have no precise idea what he was trying to communicate here and i feel satisfied with that because this is one wild ride which mainly deals in the gap between economic classes and that's as far as i understand about and i look forward to finding out what it's really about but as a whole parasite is a rollercoaster which when it starts descends and speeding downards, it has no sight of stopping until the end of it's runtime. this is one of those films my words are basically null and it has to be experienced, whether that's on a leak or in your local theatre, i don't think you disappointed or at least bored.
1966. Yorum: Move over Booksmart this is 100% the funniest film of the year 
ANYWAYS
Parasite is incredibly well made and masterfully tense through and through, Bong Joon-Ho is a powerhouse in that aspect and his screenplay here is fucking clever- although I won’t give it the credit of being my favorite of the year, seeing as there are so many other festivals bursting with films that I have a lot more anticipation for, it is probably the best so far. 
It hits a lot of notes about wealth and social status but even more so I was struck with the idea of how you can manage to manipulate people’s trust. Still, money.
In addition-  some things cut off and are abrupt and there’s no way to resolve them. I really like that about Joon-Ho’s films, he tends to acknowledge the idea that things can and will still go wrong. The plot continues but there’s no sequel.

Honestly I don’t even know what to write about this film. There are just so many moving parts. I simultaneously want my review to be some really in-depth analysis and the other part to be me just going 
« ahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh »
so I guess I did both  I don’t know why I keep thinking of Us (2019) but I’ll throw that in there too. The last thirty minutes are just ahhhhhh man
1967. Yorum: There’s a reason that this won best picture. Bong Joon-ho’s ability to so seamlessly combine genres and subvert expectations is amazing.
Halfway through the film there is a sort of switch from the funny, mostly lighthearted story of the Kim family slowly “infiltrating” the Park house, to the dark and disturbing reality that is happening behind the scenes. This does exactly what it sets out to do as a commentary on social class and showcasing disparities between the rich and the poor. I had a great experience with this all the way through. A masterpiece.
1968. Yorum: Second time watching this in one year for a film class. 
Still an all-timer. Mickey 17 can’t come sooner.
1969. Yorum: If I had all this I would be kinder.
The last 45 minutes-ish are one of those cinematic experiences you won’t ever forget. Bong Joon Ho has mastered film making, he has never failed me. Spectacular film. 
1970. Yorum: como pode uma família de trambiqueiros ser tão querida assim?
1971. Yorum: There’s this scene where Ki-Woo first goes to the Park’s house for his interview, and the housekeeper goes to wake up Yeon-kyo, the mother, who’s fallen asleep outside at a table. The housekeeper (a lower class worker) walks up to the mother (of higher class status). They are clearly divided by the straight line going down the glass panel in which the point-of-view is behind. She calls, but the mother still won’t wake up. After yelling in attempt to wake her up, the housekeeper stretches her arms out past the deliberate line separating them and claps her hands - only now does the mother wake up. A lower class passing the divide and intruding into the higher class. 
This seemingly miniscule moment represents all of Parasite. The entire film is soaked with its symbolic imagery, alongside the repeating attention to detail in each line and metaphorical foreshadowing in each frame. Between crossing lines and making plans, Parasite is the perfect combination of foreshadowing and symbolism in film. 
Add the swirling, chameleon-like genre fluidity with equal parts comedic, dramatic, and horrific moments, then all of a sudden you have a resounding masterpiece. 
I’m not gonna lie - here on my third viewing of this film I can’t say it’s a completely confident all-time favorite for me from a subjective/enjoyment standpoint. That’s usually my threshold for five-star ratings. I’m, admittedly enough, not on the gripping edge of my seat, laughing hysterically, or ever feeling absolutely devastated, but Parasite, for some reason, still absolutely prevails. Never has a film been so incredibly meticulous with the camerawork’s composition to communicate theme, or the screenplay’s specification to balance messaging and subtlety.
After all, the peach deception montage (The Belt of Faith theme accompanying it has to be one of my favorite compositions in a film), really the entire conning narrative in the first half, the housekeeper twist, and the violent burst in the bloodily climactic garden party sequence still remain some of the best scenes that have ever been put to screen. I just realized I’m just echoing my initial review but especially those portions are that good. Plus, it’d be a crime to dismiss every little awe-inspired detail: from the symbolism in the stink bug to the pizza boxes. 
Bong is simply a great director. Where he has marked automatic legend-status for me from a contextual standpoint - his massive impact with the 2020 Best Picture win speaks more than enough volumes - he has also made my much beloved Snowpiercer (always been a favorite of mine but little did I know who was behind the camera) and Mother (seriously one of the most jaw-dropping films I’ve ever seen in my life). 
This guy has created his own genre at this point. We all know Anderson for his playful color palette and Tarantino for his gory crescendos, but Bong? Every picture one after another finds its way to become a deeply rooted inspection of class with the grand sense of attention to detail. 
Parasite has all the big, hard-hitting moments and the small, unspoken ingredients that come together into a masterful narrative/genre mishmash.

It’s all so metaphorical. ★★★★★
1972. Yorum: It didn't take much time before I knew it. From the start Parasite is memorable. I knew this would become one of my favorite films very early into the film. And I was right. It's one of my favorite films now. I'm a huge fan of Korean cinema, and I'm glad it finally got the recognition it deserved. And Parasite is not at all a bad way to start with if your not familiar with Korean filmmaking. Everything what makes Korean cinema so great is present. But it's not as extreme, which makes Parasite more accessible for a wider audience. Only in it's climax you'll get a glimpse of the true madness that pretty much defines the Korean thriller. But even then, the subtlety in storytelling still remains.
Not a single scene is without purpose. Everything is put together with a reason. To bring dramatic depth to the story, or to give the characters personality. Every character is well written, and nothing, not a single detail is left unused. Parasite is meticulous and precisely crafted, every visual detail flawlessly interwoven into the storytelling, with lively characters and crafted to be gripping, tense and laugh out loud funny in equal measure. The way Bong presents us a film that's both relevant and entertaining is unique. Besides everything else (and Parasite is a lot of things in it's own genre bending way) it's highly entertaining. But also one of the most tense thrillers I've ever seen.
Bongs eye for detail is exquisite. There are more than a few scenes so brilliantly crafted it will leave you totally speechless. Brilliant. Just brilliant. And I really can't praise Song Kang Ho enough. He's an actor I admire for quite some time now. Whether he does comedic, serious or dramatic roles, he does it right. Here, he's getting the space to display his talent in all those different ways and I would say it resulted in his best role yet, although I have to admit I still need to see quite some of his important films. But all actors involved are at their best.
The latest Best picture winner is a peculiar one. And a huge milestone for Korean filmmaking. It's everything you want from a movie. From the start, it's moving. Fascinating. At any moment you just want to know what will happen next. And this strong energy of compelling and complex storytelling doesn't leave the screen for even a second.
I've watched Parasite 3 times now in a relatively short time. And with full conviction I can say I love it as much as I did after my first watch. My only complaint about Parasite is that I didn't get the chance to see it on a big screen. Well, it's only a small flaw for an otherwise perfect film. . . .
1973. Yorum: Auch wenn ich Parasite, zumindest nach dieser ersten Sichtung, nicht annähernd so gut finde, wie ich es mir Vorfeld erhofft habe, hat der Film sämtliche Preise verdient. Es ist ein eigenständiges Werk, das von Menschen kommt, die etwas Großartiges erschaffen wollten und dabei nicht von einem Milliarden-Dollar-Konzern einen Strich durch die Rechnung bekommen. Parasite ist ein echt toller Film, der teils wahnsinnig witzig, spannend, gruselig und gegen Ende auch unfassbar schockierend ist, mir aber leider ein paar Dinge bitter aufgestoßen sind.
Mich nun auf die ganzen positiven Aspekte des Films zu stürzen, wäre meines Erachtens nach höchst überflüssig. Denn allein seine vier gewonnen Oscars (unter anderem in der Kategorie Bester Film) und die ganzen Lobeshymnen von...nunja...allen sollten euch schon genug Auskunft darüber geben, mit was für einem Brett man es hier zu tun hat.
Aus diesem Grund überspringe ich dieses Kapitel und komme sofort zu den Sachen, die mich am Film gestört haben. Angefangen mit den vier Protagonisten, den "Parasiten". Zu Beginn fand ich diese ja noch recht sympathisch, da sie einem aufgrund ihrer Lebensbedingungen leid getan haben, aber nach und nach, habe ich sie einfach nur gehasst. Natürlich liegt das vor allem an der Handlung, aber ich kann es nie leiden, wenn ich die Hauptfiguren hasse. Das hat mein Filmerlebnis leider stark beeinträchtigt. Ich habe die ganze Zeit mit dem reichen Gegenpol mitgefiebert und mir war es dann am Ende auch egal, als zum Beispiel die Tochter der kriminellen Familie kaltblütig ermordet wurde. Auch mit dem für die drei übrigen Familienmitglieder hoffnungsvollen Ende konnte ich nicht viel anfangen, im Gegenteil, mein Hass wurde nur noch größer. Dazu kommt noch die Tatsache, dass einige Handlungsstränge irgendwann auf der Strecke bleiben bzw. für meinen Geschmack viel zu kurz kommen (allen voran die Liebesbeziehung zwischen Ki-woo und Da-hye).
Auch wenn ich z.B. Tarantinos Once Upon a Time in Hollywood den Oscar für den besten Film mehr gegönnt hätte, möchte ich Parasite auf keinen Fall schlecht reden. Es ist ein grandioser Film mit tollen Darstellern, einer kreativen Handlung und einem Finale, das ich so schnell nicht vergessen werde. Aber ein perfekter Film ist es für mich leider nicht.
1974. Yorum: I'm speechless. Absolutely incredible.
I first watched Parasite back in August when it first leaked online. Catch my initial review here.
My thoughts are pretty much the same.
I had to watch it through a leak simply because I couldn't wait half a year until it finally came to the theaters. But almost every day since then I was eagerly waiting for it. Today was the day.
What an absolute pleasure to experience all the thrills of this masterpiece in a massive theater.
Edit: 4 ACADEMY AWARDS BABY!!!
1975. Yorum: 🍑"Do people still get TB?"🍑
So so thrilled that the best picture of 2019 finally made its way to my hometown this week. I will even forgive you dirtbag cheapskates who stole this movie 6 months ago if you go out and see it in a theatre now. If my dinky mall AMC can have Parasite then your two-horse town might have it too.
To what was I paying attention this time? Well after watching another excellent Nerdwriter video, I couldn't help but appreciate the pivotal montage on which he focuses.
It just helps me realize the utter brilliance of Parasite, which honestly on my first viewing back in early November I was simply so riveted by the story and incredible twists and reveals that I hardly could focus on other technical and artistic merits of the film. Needless to say as I finally was able to parse through those elements this evening, they are unimpeachably (no pun intended) amazing, namely Hong Kyung-pyo's cinematography and Yang Jin-mo's editing. Unreal and absolutely astounding.
Also, my goodness, I love that the production design of Lee Ha-jun and Mo So-ra also got an Oscar nomination. Shit on the Academy if you want (there are many reasons to), but thankfully they recognized this supreme talent.
I had forgotten what a gut punch of an ending that was. Man.
Added to The Best Narrative Films of 2019.
Added to 2020 Independent Spirit Awards nominees, ranked.
Added to 2020 Academy Awards nominees, ranked.
Added to Bong Joon-ho ranked.
Added to My Subjective List of the Best Narrative Films.
Added to My Subjective List of the Best Films from Every Year I've Seen Them.
1976. Yorum: 
1977. Yorum: .- / -- .- ... - . .-. .--. .. . -.-. . .-.-.- / .--. . .-. .. --- -.. - .-.-.-
1978. Yorum: Theo and Hay's Review
Spoiler Discussion
Finally able to join in on the fun talking about this one!
I’ve yet to look at any reviews, but I’m completely on board with all the hype this got. Bong Joon Ho and this team are incredible.
A little bit of understanding just how much I loved this, when I was driving home from the thirty I sat in silence just racking my brain on everything this experience had to offer. My drive is 30 minutes long, so it’s really special when something almost eats at my mind all the ride home. If you live under a rock, but somehow read my reviews?, then definitely check this out. Masterclass in filmmaking.
1979. Yorum: korean cinema is LITERALLY INSANE in the best way possible
1980. Yorum: It’s incredibly rare for this to happen but I love the feeling of watching a film & being completely wrapped up in the hands of a master filmmaker. There are only a few directors I can count on one hand who could do this - Nolan, Spielberg, Kobayashi, Tarantino, Park Chan Wook etc.
With Parasite, Bong Joon Ho has not only proven that he’s capable of doing exactly that numerous times (Memories of Murder remains one of my fav Korean movies of all time) but has replicated that effect to phenomenal levels of awesome.
The level of control that Bong has on every single emotion, feeling & expectation of his audience. The feeling of being completely swept up & pulled into a swirling twisting intricate narrative woven so masterfully by a genius master without a single idea of which direction this was gonna go.
Not since Park Chan Wook’s The Handmaiden, arguably one of the greatest Korean movies ever made, has there ever been such a stunning display of auteurial showmanship. 
Speaking of which, I enjoyed this for its similarities to Handmaiden also bcoz both feature a plot abt people pretending to be someone they are not going into a rich, wealthy household - so fans of that movie are probably really going to dig this.
Besides that there’s really not much I can say coz part of the joy was knowing absolutely nothing about this going into it, and I sincerely urge everyone to do the same coz it’s worth it!
What I can talk abt are the technical aspects, which are impeccable. All the performances are top-notch. I will watch anything Song Kang-Ho is in. Incredible music, cinematography & camerawork. Most impressively, Bong channels big budget filmmaking into a single location premise, proving that even an accomplished director with a monster movie & a post-apocalyptic globe-trotting train movie on his resume can mine clever ideas from the limitations of a smaller, more confined space.
The house that this is set in is absolutely gorgeous, & huge props to the set design crew & Bong for establishing the geographical clarity of the house in such painstaking detail.
My head’s still trying to wrap around the ending a bit, which is to say it’s a minor blemish on an otherwise perfect movie. So much of this was comedic, eccentric & humorous so the sharp tonal swing into really dark territory was a bit jarring. It swerves too far into melodramatic territory, a problem with most Korean movies, & I guess I wasn’t expecting the social commentary on the upper-class lower-class wealth disparity to be as heavy as it is.
Anyways, there’s not enough words in my limited vocab to describe the awesome levels this movie is operating at. The first act, but especially the 2nd act, is so, so good & worth the price of admission alone. It also has a shocking moment that’s gotten the loudest communal gasps I’ve seen in a movie this year.
And if you love Bong Joon Ho movies, you’ll know that the last shot of all his movies is always a haunting imagery of some kind, & this certainly didn’t disappoint.
1981. Yorum: I finally watched this for the first time way too many years too late. A beautiful movie, both visually and story-wise. It was a fun take on the usual “eat the rich” stories I feel we get a lot of these days. The tension and character building is great, supporting by performances that enchance it even more. Very deserving of the success and critical acclaim it receives!
1982. Yorum: I saw this in the theaters when it came out. I had to go back the very next day. I was in amazement. I've seen it a handful of times since then and I'm still shocked and awed by the 2nd half of the film every time. It's like trying to solve a rubix cube, so many turns and flips and it keeps dragging you deeper into itself. I to that house I swear that's alive
Bong Joon-Ho is a master filmmaker. I'm so happy he won an Oscar for this film, not that I take stock in alot of the Oscar selections or picks but I'm happy for him. The cast did a stellar job as well. All of them. I think the sister, Park So-dam, is a stand out. I think she will be a star soon enough. Her control as the art teacher for the young boy is outstanding. I think the wife, Cho Yeo-jeong is fabulous as well. And absolute stunner. Just naming those 2 but the whole cast kills it. So damn good
As far as movie houses go, this home is unbelievable. It should be listed in the cast. Urban from the street but has a beautiful back yard that gives the feel of a nice outskirt subdivision. The many levels, the secret level!!, the living room with that crazy table. The set pieces are glorious and just add textures to this mysterious drama.
I hope Bong is cooking up another scorcher like this one. Incredible film. Genius stuff


@thinkingmoviereviews
1983. Yorum: – Você sabe qual tipo de planos nunca falhará? Nenhum. Sabe por quê? Porque a vida não pode ser planejada.
se houvesse uma lista com todos os adjetivos existentes no mundo, acredito que nenhum deles seria suficiente para descrever o que é parasita. esse longa-metragem fez um apanhado de tudo que é necessário para servir um bom entretenimento junto a crítica social e pôs aqui. passei as duas horas do filme em puro êxtase, não teve um momento sequer que ele entrasse em baixa, parecia uma sequência de acontecimentos em ápice. e por deus, o que foi aquele final? sinto arrepios até o momento que escrevo esta review, definitivamente não tinha como encerrá-lo de forma mais certeira e impactante. agora tenho a certeza que ele mereceu ganhar todas as 4 categorias ao qual foi indicado ao oscars.
1984. Yorum: "jessica, only child, illinois, chicago. classmate kim jin-mo, he's your cousin."
kim ki jung’s song will always gag me. i forgot how brilliant this film is. i’ve been meaning to rewatch this for a while and i’m so glad i finally did. insane in the best way possible. better than i remember.
1985. Yorum: An unforgiving movie which I won’t get out of my mind.
I can perfectly see why people view this as the perfect movie. How deep and complex this is really is shadowed by its fairly simple and aesthetic story. I’ve never seen suspense so well built up and articulated with such short plot and story. 
Infinitely one of the most unique screenplays. The direction is graspingly strong, its dark demeanor fits with an aesthetically pleasing and ironic tone and direction, itself being a scream of wrenching realism at the rich and society and life. It’s a modern nuanced masterpiece with a hidden agenda. Even before its suspenseful build up, it’s beautifully pleasing the way the entirety of “past lives” was, Bong Joon Ho is a phenomenally challenging screenwriter and director. 
1986. Yorum: wtf i was not ready for the cake stair scene i was watching in the dark 😭
1987. Yorum: wow
1988. Yorum: Die Kinoleinwand ist das Fenster in eine andere Welt.
In Parasite sehen wir zwei Fenster in Form einer solchen Kinoleinwand, bei den Parks und bei den Kims.
Die einen sitzen im Parkett in der ersten Reihe und müssen ihre Hälse recken um mehr als nur den Straßenbelag und Schuhe sehen zu können, die reiche Familie sitzt gemütlich in ihrer Loge auf einer bequemen Couch und kann auf den schönen gepflegten Garten blicken.
1989. Yorum: 
1990. Yorum: my sims when they visit the spencer-kim-lewis household
1991. Yorum: so much foreshadowing they should call it fiveshadowing, (slaps knee and chuckles to himself).
This film absolutely blew me away, from the second it started to the second it unfortunately ended I was in awe. I’m struggling to find a fault within this film like genuinely on the top of my head I can’t think of anything…
This film follows a poor family who manage to infiltrate a family of a opposite lifestyle, way of life and attitude towards everything. The direction in this film was honestly in a word beautiful, Bong Joon-Ho really has an eye for brilliance and I can’t wait to see more of his work, the power in his story telling is magnitudes higher than anything I’ve ever seen. This film was filled with intense dialogue, foreshadowing, brilliant acting, plot twists like no other, and breathtaking visuals.
Just looking at the awards it’s won just shows the masterpiece that it is, especially with the competition for that year, with POALOF as much as I couldn’t get on with it there’s no denying it’s brilliance, but this film tops it on so many levels it’s disgusting. 
Some absolutely special performances from Park Myung-Hoon, who blew me away whenever he was on screen, his devilish stare, psychotic personality and dead between the eyes towards the end, he delivers his performance to absolute perfection. Towards the end you see his character go into a state of insanity as he loses grip with reality, obviously who wouldn’t at that point. But wow that man really did deliver first class.
I also thought the use/lack of lighting was perfectly balanced to reflect the mood ingeniously. The lighting matched the tone so well in every scene and really helped drive the whole mood and seriousness of each scene.
In my opinion this is one of the best international films (from what I’ve seen in my very small portfolio of them) but I can’t see much topping this, it was filled with foreshadowing (like the use of cockroaches and how by the end of the film Kim Ki-Taek embodied one), the picture was crisp and the camera work really helped adding to that, gave you the sense of isolation on how so little people can live in such a big house (like a cockroach). And that scene when the boys eating cake really freaked me out, my heart dropped and for such a short scene, it worked so well.
Anyway enough of my rambling wanna-be reviews, I really enjoyed this film and highly encourage it onto anyone looking to get into foreign cinema.
5/5
1992. Yorum: Absolute fucking masterpiece. One of the best things i’ve ever seen and idk why it took me so long to watch.
1993. Yorum: bong joon ho muito pika
1994. Yorum: esse aqui é aquele filme que se você não gosta, o problema não é filme e sim você. Sério, quem que dá menos de 4 estrelas pra esse filme??? A cena da chuva e os diálogos que vem depois são PERFEITOS! É incrível como um filme consegue fazer tanta crítica social em só 2 horas de duração.
1995. Yorum: i know im like late late excuse my stupidity for not watching this sooner, amazing… there are no words literally.
1996. Yorum: I know I’m a couple of years late but oH MY GOD
1997. Yorum: i will never get over this film
1998. Yorum: Wow!!! Finally got around to watching this one and it was worth the wait.
I was glad I knew nothing about this one going into the film.
1999. Yorum: Easily one of my favourite movies ever! Everything in this movie is fantastic. Even after multiple rewatches the jokes still land and the suspense sequences are still intense. The cinematography is stunning and every actor did a brilliant job. If you haven’t seen this film, I cannot recommend it enough.
2000. Yorum: A f***ing MASTERPIECE!
Damn, this film is unlike any other I've ever watched. Parasite truly proves that Koreans are capable of competing in anything. It's no surprise that this film has received countless honors and nominations, particularly at the Oscars, because it deserves them all.
And the finale tho. It’s a little bloody and disturbing, but it's also extremely satisfying. It's like watching Once Upon a Time in Hollywood all over again, but much better.
I don't think I need to go into detail because it's flawless in every way. A film that is both distinctive and realistically remarkable. Go ahead and watch it on your own!
2001. Yorum: I'm still thinking of this film days later. Shot exceptionally well, the acting was brilliant and the ending left me feeling pretty empty. Parasite is an absolute winner.
2002. Yorum: 
2003. Yorum: Parasite.
I mean I don’t really know what to say except, let me just say you have no idea what to expect. This was such a beautifully made piece of cinema that we were lucky enough to witness. Like I said I can’t say much without spoiling it but I say just watch with an open mind and you’ll get hooked easily. I promise you that. 
“So long”
2004. Yorum: rewatching this knowing that the 2021 oscars being delayed means parasite will be the longest running best picture winner🥰🥰🥰🥰🥰
2005. Yorum: Ben Shapiro called this overrated.
Fuck Ben Shapiro.
2006. Yorum: 99/100
2007. Yorum: Phenomenal movie! Bravo! This is so cleverly written with an amazing cast that you have no other choice but to be mesmerized. I just couldn't get enough of fantastic flick. Definitely a must watch!
2008. Yorum: Gisaengchung/PARASITE (2019) South Korea colour 130m.
Written and directed by Boon Joon Ho.
I managed to watch the last showing of this in my local cinema: Folkets Bio in Umea, Sweden, 2020-03-19.
After hearing all the praise, I still was surprised by its magnificence.
2009. Yorum: Masterpiece from start to finish.
2010. Yorum: I finally got around to "Parasite", one of the most remarked-upon films from last year (and of course the Oscar winner). "Parasite" is indeed masterful in its ability to blend sharp criticism of class disparities and conflicts, humorous moments and characters, and the horror of things gone wrong. I also liked its two halves - the first where the poor family subtly "invades" the wealthy family, and the second where everything starts to fall apart. The same for the competition between the two families of servants. Creative, incisive and beautifully directed, edited and photographed.
But... it may be just me but I tend to be turned by a excessive violence and bloody resolutions in films. This is true for me of Tarantino and also of many Hollywood action films. I am not putting Bong Joon-Ho in the same category of these. He's clearly a talented and remarkable filmmaker. But this tends to alienate me in its shock value even when it fits into the plot. So it knocked a star off for me in my rating.
My favorite part of the film was the relentless rainstorm which the privileged family was able to sit out from the comfort of their architect-designed home while it devastated the poor part of town, leaving everyone homeless and in a makeshift community shelter. The contrast between the 1% and the rest of the city couldn't be more stark.
2011. Yorum: the first time i saw this i really underrated how much it looks and feels like a movie, compared to like 90% of shit i watched in 2019
the bar has gotten real low, but i like to meet our cultural moments where they are
2012. Yorum: Ki-taek: They are rich but still nice. 
Chung-sook: They are nice because they are rich.
Some smell people. Some people smell. The difference between the two is simultaneously infinitesimally small and large enough to create an abyssal hole that tears us apart. The class divide is poised on a knife edge, and moment to moment the sharp point chooses who it will cut next. Still a masterpiece. Still must be seen. Still something singularly extraordinary. Parasite is what cinema was made for. Seek it out.
2013. Yorum: I had really high expectations for this cause of all the rave reviews this has been getting but holy fucking shit I'm blown away
2014. Yorum: this film is just mf sexy u know? could watch it forever and ever
2015. Yorum: 
2016. Yorum: wow..... this is so metaphorical....
2017. Yorum: That’s history right there, you understand?
2018. Yorum: This may be my most anticipated movie of all time, and that is always a scary feeling. It is one of the most hyped movies basically ever, and my expectations were so high, but Parasite somehow managed to exceed them. 
First, can we just talk about those performances. I’ve obviously never seen any of these actors in a movie before, and I thought each and every actor was fantastic and captured their character perfectly. The movie looked stunning, particularly the colour grading which I’ve been excited for since looking at posters and banners during advertising. The cinematography really did impress me at times, and in that respect it was a joy to watch. The score was captivating and beautiful, and I’ve been listening to it since watching. 
The best thing about this movie is the storyline/writing. I wasn’t expecting it to be so funny, and at times I was genuinely laughing out loud which is a rarity for me. There were some pretty horrific scenes too of course, but the balance between that and comedy was perfect. The story was not predictable in the slightest, and I was constantly guessing what was going to happen and always getting it wrong. The tension building throughout was so well done, making for quite an intense thriller during certain moments. The characters were so well written and all had their unique, specific characteristics with good development for a few of them. 
Of course, all of these points come down to one key point: this movie is a result of impeccable direction. Bong Joon-Ho has created a deep, metaphorical piece of commentary that is also incredibly entertaining and fun at times. He made every decision completely right, and if this movie wins best picture tonight I will be eternally grateful. Can’t wait for more from Bong.
2019. Yorum: so in conclusion, EAT THE RICH
2020. Yorum: ‘Once you overcome the one inch tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to many more amazing films’ - Bong Joon-Ho
Bong Joon-Ho does an outstanding job of creating a film that shows a realistic, and subtle representation of classism in Korea. The symbolism is striking, with camera movements and water being used to indicate different classes. 
What struck me is the true portrayal of classism. In reality, the upper class are not evil, and the lower class are not perfect; everyone does things wrong, everyone is human. This film perfectly captures that, instead showing how your class affects how you react to a situation. The rain was a ‘blessing’ to the wealthy, and a disaster for the poor.
The acting was great, allowing every character to be seen as both likeable and dislikable. I particularly enjoyed Choi Woo-Shik’s performance. 
The cinematography was also very effective, not only using camera movement to suggest class, but also, put simply, produced a very aesthetic looking film. The stark differences between the upper class neighbourhood, and the poor neighbourhood created by lighting and camera angles help to further show the divide between the classes.
Overall, Parasite is a must watch for all. It perfectly combines multiple genres that appear to naturally flow into one another. It contains twists that keep the plot moving forward, and is a very engaging watch.
2021. Yorum: In der Filmografie bedeutender Regisseure lässt sich meistens ein Muster herauslesen – eine Affinität. Ein gewisses Faible für eine bestimmte Art von Film oder besser gesagt von Film Genres. Damit sind nicht unbedingt Themen oder Motive gemeint, sondern tatsächlich Klassifizierung, die dann bestimmte Themen und Motive aufgreifen. Bei einigen Regisseuren scheint diese Affinität deutlicher durch als bei anderen - Scorsese wird immer für seine Gangster Filme bekannt sein und Wes Craven wird immer zu den Großmeistern des Horror Genre zählen. Bei anderen Regisseuren wird es schon schwieriger die Coen Brüder besitzen sicherlich einen Hang zur Ära des klassischen Hollywoods (auch wenn sie diese in einer dekonstruierten Form zeigen). In ihrer Filmografie sticht aber kein Genre besonders hervor. Steven Spielberg ist ein Blockbuster Regisseur. Blockbuster als Genre ist jedoch schwer greifbar, zumindest aus der künstlerischen Perspektive.
Bong Joon Hos Filmografie ist durch aus diversifiziert: Sci-Fi Dystopien stehen hier neben Mord und Familiendramen. Natürlich lassen sich einige Regisseure finden, die sich in verschiedensten Genres ausprobieren - man denke hier an Steven Soderbergh oder auch Stanley Kubrick. Außergewöhnlich bei Bong Joon Ho ist jedoch sein Talent Genre vermischend und übergreifend zu arbeiten. Sein neuester Film „Parasite“ oszilliert zwischen den verschiedensten Genres, dabei findet eine stetige Vermischung statt, die die Harmonie des Films niemals durcheinander wirft. Der koreanische Regisseur wechselt gekonnt und mühelos zwischen Komödie und Tragödie und trifft dabei immer den passenden Ton.
Das Kino ist eine Sprache. Im Vergleich zum Roman besitzt das Kino ein - wie Susan Sontag es nennt – „vocabulary of forms“. Die Syntax des Films, die meistens lediglich unbewusst wahrgenommen wird, dient zur Vermittlung des Inhaltes. Form ist Inhalt und Inhalt ist Form. Dass Bong Joon Ho die Syntax perfekt beherrscht, zeigt sich in den fließenden Kamerabewegungen des Films. Die vertikalen Bewegungen zeigen uns, ohne viel unnötige Exposition, die Unterschiede der beiden Familien und weisen auf den Klassenkampf der verschiedenen Gesellschaftsschichten hin. Besonders deutlich wird das, sobald die Familie Kim aus dem Haus flüchten muss und wir als Zuschauer sie bei ihrem wortwörtlichen Abstieg, zurück in ihre kleine Kellerwohnung, beobachten. Sobald der Regisseur auf horizontale Kamerabewegungen zurückgreift, beschreibt er den Kampf innerhalb derselben Klasse. Die handwerklich großartige Szene in der die Familie die Haushälterin loswird, ist voll von Sequenzen, die mit einer horizontalen Kamerafahrt aufgenommen wurden.
Bong Joon Ho spricht die Sprache des Films. Er kommuniziert auf allen Ebenen mit dem Zuschauer. Bild, Ton und Schnitt greifen perfekt ineinander, kreieren einen außergewöhnlichen Rhythmus und ermöglichen ihm dieses eigentlich kaum machbare Zusammenspiel verschiedenster Genres. „Parasite“ ist Hitchcock, die Dekonstruktion eines Home Invasion Movies, eine Gesellschaftssatire, Überlebenskampf, teilweise brüllend komisch, teilweise sehr blutig und vor allem der beste Film des Jahres 2019.
2022. Yorum: It just keeps getting better every time i watch it.
2023. Yorum: film of the decade, probably. asian cinema stays winning!
2024. Yorum: One of the most finely crafted films I’ve ever seen. I can’t even put into words how good this was. Got me blushing and shit
2025. Yorum: This should do to movies about modern class & capitalism what Goodfellas did to gangster movies. That is, make everyone say after seeing a movie on the same subject, “it’s no Parasite.”
Bong has closed off this theme for the foreseeable future as he’s made another masterpiece. A film that conquers absurdity, tone and just flat out insanity in an indescribable thriller. A film that has come at the end of the decade, as only it could, as it works metaphorically to sum up some of the world’s problems over the years and more clearly the people that live through them.
2026. Yorum: par·a·site
/ˈperəˌsīt/
a person who habitually relies on or exploits others and gives nothing in return.
excellent might just be an understatement. i am completely blown away by this masterpiece. 
this masterfully crafted film directed by the brilliant bong joon-ho tackles the issues of capitalism and what wealth and greed or a lack thereof can do to people. this social commentary propels you to think about the state of the world and the contrast between the lower class and the wealthy. there were so many twist and turns and it never fails to lose your attention. the acting, cinematography, the screenplay and everything else in between were high class. this is definitely a must-see and the movie of the year.
2027. Yorum: Ohhh, so THAT'S why I keep seeing this in the Popular with Friends section!
2028. Yorum: 
2029. Yorum: hi
someone else wsnts my name,
bye i guess
slap, steve, the bitch with the shit...….cra




delete
love you alll!
2030. Yorum: So I watched this last night and couldn’t properly get my thoughts in order until this morning to write a semi-coherent review explaining the greatness of what I had witnessed.
I went in totally blind (as many people recommended) and it was the best thing I could’ve possibly done. This movie takes all your expectations, meets them, and then completely surpasses all of them. 
The political and social commentary are so evident but in a way that never feels too on the nose, if that makes sense. It’s different from any other movie that deals with class issued because I promise that when you leave the theatre you’ll actually feel dirty and enraged for participating in the economic system we’re living in.
The performances are all extraordinary and the set design is sublime. I don’t know how to express my admiration towards Bong Joon-Ho in a way that doesn’t seem fake or hyperbolic but just know that he deserves all the praise he might possibly get for crafting something as incredible as Parasite. Hat’s off to him and everyone involved in the making of this film.
2031. Yorum: par·a·site
/ˈperəˌsīt/
noun
1.
an organism that lives in or on an organism of another species (its host) and benefits by deriving nutrients at the other's expense.
2.
a damn cinematic masterpiece.
2032. Yorum: At one point during the movie’s anodyne-by-design first 30/45 minutes the guy sitting next to me exclaimed out loud “yo this shit is fucked up!”.
2033. Yorum: Still the best film of the last years.
2034. Yorum: I watched it without knowing anything about it except it's a comedy/thriller/drama and, of course, that didn't even got close to prepare me for what this movie is actually about. I loved every second of it and all the emotions it got me through.
2035. Yorum: foreign films continuously raising the bar for cinema
2036. Yorum: “... that was so metaphorical...” 
2037. Yorum: Começa como Lima Barreto e termina como sabe-se lá o quê. Sublime.
2038. Yorum: I think I felt every emotion I could have possibly felt during this movie
2039. Yorum: Parasite can be called a decent film, though I expected much more from Memories of Murder's director. I think in Parasite there are two different tone and rhythm. First half which is the 'set up' scenes, the black comedy and everything seems about right, the problem of Parasite starts when they come to the victims' house to spend the night, from now on everything is a mess! The film losts its way and ends badly. I still think his Memories of Murder is his best work till today and I think it's also his only good feature.
2040. Yorum: SHE MAY LOOK LIKE A SHEEP, BUT INSIDE, SHE'S A FOX.
PARASITE is the latest by Korean filmmaker BONG JOON-HO, who proves in this that he is absolutely one of the greatest filmmakers working today.
PARASITE is incredibly fascinating, has well-paced moments of humor, and pulls at all the right emotions at the right times, creating a most-effective viewing experience.
The cast and acting is So-dam great in this.
I am actually left a little speechless, as Parasite is undoubtedly the best film of 2019 and one of the best of the decade, not to mention one of the best Korean films I've ever seen.
You have to check this out.
This is BONG JOON-HO'S "THE HANDMAIDEN".
This is the film where Bong Joon-Ho takes his skills and simply transcends cinema to create pure art, pure beauty.
IT'S SO METAPHORICAL.
2041. Yorum: 
2042. Yorum: IM SPEECHLESS....THAT [SPEECH]
2043. Yorum: ترکیبی از کمدی سیاه و تریلرهای سینمای یک دهه گذشته کره جنوبی. کمتر فیلمی میتواند خنده دار، دلهره آور، دلپذیر و تلخ باشد و در عین حال تمام این لحن ها را در اوج کمال و باورپذیری پیاده کند
بعید میدانم عنصر گذر زمان چیزی از جذابیت این فیلم کم کند.
از بهترن های یک دهه اخیر بدون شک.
2044. Yorum: good lord this is spellbindingly wild. and as much as it is also grippingly heart-tugging and inciting, there is just not one label to categorise Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite. as it squirms and bites with its social commentary in a dog-eat-dog twist and turn, its weight is heavy enough not to burden yet it courses throughout to be felt. the absurd humour on the surface hides a deeper and bigger problem rooting from the imbalance of social classes / poverty that this alters its face to the horror of impetuous rebellion and contemptuous dreams. the frequent drizzle hints on the moral decline sprawled on the backseat. Parasite then drives to places in familiar highways until it becomes a rough road towards a cliff. it takes you there and there is so much to take in. so do you jump or get kicked?
there also seems to be a desire to extricate oneself from the problematic system. it pervades in the film only for it to be eaten by the same system. it is a very sad fact of living I feel; and it jeers and pushes until it fills to the brim then it turns the person into the same monster it is trying to fight. a special scene on the couch will absolutely appall not for its sexual content but for the pleasurable words spoken. this is more than meets the eye; there is also a lot that money can’t buy (and aren’t we here for the most part to use each other ha ha). I guarantee a satisfaction over its caricature of the (oblivious and dumb) upper classes. a perspective difference in reality when one is sitting down versus standing up impales. ah, respect.
2045. Yorum: Was not expecting the humour in this... those peach scenes are on another level. Brilliant !!
2046. Yorum: Believe the hype!!!
2047. Yorum: MEU DEUS E SE TEM ALGUÉM MORANDO ESCONDIDO NA MINHA CASA (moro em um apartamento que mal cabe eu e minhas coisas
2048. Yorum: The greatest movie ever made. (UPDATE, behind ROTK)
I’ve put this film of for way to long and I’m deeply ashamed of that because this film is flawless I mean the 4.6 average rating speaks for itself.It's a thrilling and thought-provoking movie that explores social class and inequality. The story is gripping from start to finish, the acting is brilliant from every single person involved, and the cinematography is stunning.
One thing that really stood out to me about this movie was its clever blend of genres. It seamlessly combines elements of drama, dark comedy, and suspense, even horror with that  one scene… keeping you on the edge of your seat throughout. The film masterfully tackles themes of greed, privilege, and the lengths people will go to survive. This film truly deserved to win best picture at the Oscars because I mean it is THE BEST MOVIE OFF ALL TIME.
100/100
2049. Yorum: Films Watched in 2022 - Film 540
2019 Ranked
My Top 100 
The way this film builds and the delivers is nothing short of masterful. So many individual sequences could have essays written about them, the house and set design could be analysed for hours. Fuck, what a film. The fact that none of these actors received Oscar nominations is still horrifying.
2050. Yorum: Upon a THIRD viewing, I’m truly astonished as to how I have loved it even more and more upon each watch.
I can keep this one simple, everyone’s seen it, almost everyone shares the same thoughts, it’s beautiful and every aspect is admirable in the most respectable way.
Short story time:
Last Sunday I went to Best Buy with my father, after browsing for about 15 minutes, I saw a 4K copy of Parasite. Now, I already own the Blu-Ray copy, but I wanted to check if the 4K copy was any different in regards to subtitle options. While the Blu-Ray only has English subtitles available, I crossed my fingers hoping the 4K copy would bring SPANISH subtitles— so that my parents can watch.
The copy has a beautiful slipcover, I turned it around, the slip didn’t reveal the language options. But in this moment, I felt so rushed, so full of adrenaline in hopes it would come in Spanish, I lifted the slip to reveal the bottom of the back of the actual Blu-Ray copy, and I say “Spanish Audio 2.0” and I freaked out. My mind was racing, thoughts of “not just subtitles? they dubbed it in Spanish??? huh?” and even though I didn’t fully acknowledge it at the time, I don’t remember seeing that there was even a Korean audio setting. I was moving too fast.
I jumped in excitement as I rushed back to my father, I told him he was in for a TREAT and he told me $20 for a 4K copy of a movie I already own wasn’t worth it, but I insisted. It has Spanish Audio!
I made this story much longer than it should’ve been but at the end I get to checkout and they charge me for a copy of John Wick and I say “John Wick? I’m not buying John Wick” and then the guy at checkout was as confused as I was, he took off the beautiful 4K PARASITE slip to reveal that some fool had placed a copy of John Wick instead of— what I assumed to be— the actual 4K Parasite.
The dots connected in my head.
How the frick would Parasite be dubbed in Spanish.
I went home feeling defeated that day, but then I told the gc about and Sir Alex Gonzalez told me to check Hulu. And it’s available with Spanish subtitles on Hulu, thats where I watched it with them. The end. 😀
2051. Yorum: Just got out of the theatre and holy shit, it’s even better the second time. It’s also mY MOM’S NEW FAVOURITE BEST PICTURE NOMINEE!!! BONGHIVE RISE UP!!!
2052. Yorum: This is the fourth of Bong Joon Ho's films that I have seen. It's probably not my favorite of his (that remains "Snowpiercer") but it has the same tonal shifts and wickedly satirical bent as his other work. This one is more grounded than some of the others, however, focusing mostly on a single unemployed family and the wealthy family that they infiltrate to better themselves. It also handles those tonal shifts more deftly and precisely than something like "Okja", for instance.
The film is consistently funny, but with a thick tension laid beneath anything. The tension comes from the contrast between the rich and poor characters and the fact that Bong's storytelling avoids the typical structure and story beats of the average film in favor of a near-constant stream of surprises and revelations. The characters are richly drawn and engaging. They're all likable and they're all kind of despicable at times too. I anticipated that this would be a story of how the rich are terrible and the poor deserve better. But, really, the poor in this story do some pretty reprehensible things in order to better themselves and the rich seem, with a couple of exceptions late in the film, to be naive and kind. Their privilege has perhaps distanced them from the rest of the world to such an extent that they don't have the sort of distrust and paranoia that the average person does. They float on a cloud, above everyone else, without even realizing that they're ON a cloud. Bong seems to be indicting a system where the rich exist within a rarefied bubble and the poor are reduced to criminal actions and subterfuge and deceit for the slightest chance to better their situation, without making any of the characters within this system into outright monsters. If the main characters in "Parasite" are criminals, then it is because Capitalism has made them that way. "Parasite" also finds a novel way of illustrating (sort of like Jordan Peele's "Us") that there's always someone beneath you, that this society is structured on levels of oppression and misery to benefit those at the highest level, and that it is structured in such a way that those on the highest level don't even realize how they benefit from this unfair system (that's why they are so shocked when it is pointed out to them, most of the time, and refuse to believe it). But those in the middle don't seem to realize how much worse those in the levels below them have it either. It's a system built on ignorance more than almost anything else, separating all the levels from each other to such an extent that a greater understanding between classes is virtually impossible.
"Parasite" is an allegory, but far from a preachy one. It's instead committed to entertaining and surprising, to eliciting gasps and laughs and keeping the viewer so thoroughly engaged that they barely think about the themes thrumming beneath this work until the end credits have began to roll. At least, that was my experience with it. I have probably barely scratched the surface of this film, but that's my intention. I want to whet your appetite for the movie, which really is as good as this Awards season has suggested, without spoiling anything about it. I went in nearly blind and was wonderfully surprised and delighted by the experience. Bong's direction and storytelling instincts have perhaps never been this powerful. It's a fluid, engrossing, masterfully calibrated experience. I probably still prefer the surreal satire and dark fable that is "Snowpiercer", but this one runs a close second...and might even overtake "Snowpiercer" (which tackles many of the same themes in a similarly exciting and surprising fashion) on repeat viewings.
2053. Yorum: rich people are a DISEASE and we need to ERADICATE EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THEM!!!!
but not before they donate to australia’s bushfires please my country’s been burning for over a month now. we’re losing land, our homes and our wildlife and we need all the help and support we can get
2054. Yorum: 
2055. Yorum: “Ki-woo, you know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. No plan.“
Beautiful. Brazen. Brilliant.
[📽: Screener]
2056. Yorum: I’m still amazed this film exists... like, how can I move on in life after I’ve seen this. This is the pinnacle of film.
2057. Yorum: Entertaining. But... does an artist make movies in which every single character is venal and self-involved? If you're making a movie about class inequality (which the movie reminds us explicitly on more than one occasion that we should read metaphorically), do you portray the exploited working class as more physically brutal and murderous than the upper class? If you care deeply about the human condition, do you make an anti-humanist film?
Just wondering.
2058. Yorum: How appropriate that so much of this movie involves people getting repeatedly bashed over the head...
2059. Yorum: I recall reading an interview with director Bong Joon-ho shortly before “Parasite” premiered in Cannes in which he voiced his concerns that the film might not be much of a hit with critics, because they were unlikely to fully comprehend what he was going for. It was a mostly self-deprecating hunch, not voiced with a trace of condescension against uninformed foreigners, but genuine concern that he might have aimed for too narrow of a target audience. To an extent I get his reservations, which clearly turned out to be unfounded when the jury declared his project the unanimously selected winner of the Palme D’Or. On a surface level, everyone can figure out that he is drawing a satirical parable of the stark class disparities in his home country of South Korea, where thousands of college graduates would apparently jump at the chance to be a full-time chauffeur for a business tycoon. While educated and wealthy tech executives can afford to reside in fancy homes designed by celebrated architects, entire families are cramped into moldy, insect-ridden basement rooms without power, let alone WiFi. But the cultural minutia and the more subtle references he sprinkles into his sharp script are likely somewhat lost on Western audiences.
It’s to Bong’s great credit then that I still thought this was a phenomenal effort, both disturbingly funny during the build-up phase and relentlessly tense once “Parasite” pulls the rug from underneath us. I thought he botched mixing those two ingredients in “Okja” because the polar extremes were just too radical to ultimately reconcile the laughs with the repulsion. Here, he rarely oversteps the line. It’s a focused, self-assured work with an impressive understanding of what it wants to accomplish. I’ll refrain from delving too much into the plot. It’s better to walk in as unprepared as possible and let the director’s mad vision just wash over you. But in essence, Ki-woo is asked by a close friend to take over his tutoring job for a girl he has fallen in love with and intends to ask out when he returns from studying abroad. Ki-woo is initially hesitant, lacking the credentials to teach a high school student English, but the mother of the girl is conveniently gullible and soon he is emboldened to take increasingly drastic steps to ingratiate himself with the upper class Park family.
That’s a good point for me to stop, because after putting all the players in place, Bong finds himself at a crossroads of various potential paths to head down. The film could theoretically go for an awkward love triangle, an option put on the table less than fifteen minutes in. There was even room for something vaguely similar to the general idea of Jordan Peele’s “Us”, minus the literal doppelgangers. But right before the other shoe drops, we get to a point where anything might happen. The family members are gleefully sitting on a couch, congratulating themselves on their success. It can only be a matter of time before their not fully unearned self-satisfaction is crushed. Bong is terrific about catching us off guard, piling shock upon shock and concluding in a saddening assessment of high-class snobbery and low-class desperation. Which, come to think of it, is sort of what he went for in “Snowpiercer” as well.
It’s hard to single out MVPs among this high-caliber cast, but there are a few highlights worth mentioning. Song Kang-ho, who worked with Bong on prior occasions, is a father who has utterly failed to provide for his family and is forced to rely on his cunning children to earn them a living. It’s clear that he has given up, not unjustifiably so. Being forced to subject his wife and children to the horrendous fumes of insecticide being sprayed around their street when he decides to leave the windows open to get free pest control is an early display of their willingness to forego self-respect to score any minor win they can get their hands on. Cho Yeo-jeong as Mrs. Park provides much of the comic relief, simply by being so eagerly receptive to the increasingly preposterous bullshit being shoved down her throat. And there’s Choi Woo-shik, the mastermind behind the Kim family enterprise. Ki-woo is a savvy guy, who stays a few steps ahead of everyone to put his audacious plan to ensure his family’s future into motion. It’s impressive to watch it all unfold. And before long you almost get the sense that he might just have accounted for everything. Except of course for actually transpires, which is admittedly so startling, that he can be forgiven for failing to factor it in. And in spite of Bong’s bleak message, he plainly had fun playing with his audience’s expectations and paying off the red herrings with audacious developments. The category is likely to be heavily stacked for a second year in a row, but it would be unwise to bet against “Parasite” for the “Best International Feature” Oscar at this point.
2060. Yorum: Holy hell.
I don't say this lightly, but this movie was very nearly perfect. Such an outrageous, yet... feasible romp through the class divide in Korea, and by extension an analysis of the modern social system in general. Everything perfectly placed, acting perfectly performed, direction impeccable. Everything down to the set design and sound of the damn doorbell was perfect.
I can't wait to watch this one again, and again, and again. Masterpiece.
2061. Yorum: Moved me to my core for reasons I’m not comfortable sharing in a Letterboxd review. 
One of the most inventive scripts of the last decade. Remarkably well acted and directed.
I wanted to say “THE BEST FUCKING MOVIE EVER” but I’ll give myself some time to calm down.
2062. Yorum: Yeah, it’s fine.
Masterfully crafted, but no masterpiece.
It explored themes I really like, although it’s often a bit on the nose. Honestly hard to think about it outside the context of last year’s superior Asian-Cinema-for-Western-Audiences Burning and Shoplifters. Runs too long and could’ve had the fat trimmed, but that’s kind of par for the course with all Korean cinema, regardless of genre.
I’m glad I saw it. I will probably rewatch it in 3 years, but not any sooner. The two hours I spent with it are honestly all I want to spend with it at this point. It deserves the hype for this year, but not for this decade, and certainly not within the context of cinematic history. 
Can you tell I’m over talking about this now?
2063. Yorum: experiencing this film in a cinema with hundreds of other people was one of the most thrilling experiences of my life.
2064. Yorum: dong-ik: you know a place where i can get braised ribs?
kim: mcdonalds
2065. Yorum: A scathing indictment of class disparity, meticulous in its mapping of confinement. Bong Hive always wins. Too bad about everyone else.
2066. Yorum: That first hour!! 👌🏻👌🏻👌🏻
2067. Yorum: 
2068. Yorum: Bacurau, Nós, Coringa, e agora Parasita. Alguns dos principais filmes do ano carregam o encontro da violência e luta pela sobrevivência no confronto entre os privilegiados e os não-privilegiados. Seja no nordeste do Brasil, em Gotham City, nos duplos no subsolo e na Coréia do Sul. É o cinema trazendo à tona a completa insatisfação global que chega à flor da pele, e pode explicar porque tantos governos extremistas tem ocupado um espaço que não mais lhes pertencia.
O filme de Bong Joon-ho é excelente em todos os aspectos, do tom crítico aproveitando-se de um humor ligeiro e moderno, das atuações precisas (com personagens que variam de vigaristas a ingênuos-românticos), do domínio completo da arte do cinema entre trilha sonora, timing, movimentos de câmera, é uma aula milimétrica para encaixar o roteiro arquitetado dentro desse estilo tão caro ao cinema sul-coreano de misturar gêneros.
E enquanto você se deleita com essa direção impecável, entre cenas marcantes, as sacadas de crítica social são ainda mais interessantes e intrigantes. Esse confronto entre pobre e rico, entre malandro e ingênuo, a violência gráfica e debochada. Da futilidade à autoproteção sem piedade, está tudo lá exemplificado e criticado, mas quando entra em cena a segregação de classes pelo cheiro, Bong chega num outro patamar, seu filme chega num outro patamar, o preconceito como algo primitivo, natural, não é só a questão de estar sem privilegios e precisar “roubar” wifi de alguém, é mais a questão de ser mesmo.
2069. Yorum: Stop reading this if you haven't seen the film. Don't watch any of the trailers. Avoid looking at even a tweet about this movie.
I came into Parasite knowing nothing about the film, even thinking that it was a horror movie. I'm so glad I did that. The film masterfully unravels, taking you on a journey from charmed laughter to harrowing terror. Completely confident in its choices, it shifts through three different genres in as many scenes, pulls out plot twist after plot twist making it feel like the most natural thing, and breaks tempo to linger not when it has to, but because it wants to.
And yes, I'm talking about the film like it's a living, breathing thing--because it feels that way. Much like main character Kim Ki-Woo andhis rock, director Bong Joon-Ho has imbued this film with organism-like qualities. It goes wherever it wants, and all you have to do is watch and follow. Bong has always been my favorite of the Korean directors, and Parasite may just be his best film.
2070. Yorum: holy motherfucking shit. spell masterpiece to me, please
2071. Yorum: Pretentious bullshit.
2072. Yorum: i have no one to talk about this with
2073. Yorum: Так, начну с того что вообще мало смотрела корейских фильмов, но это точно станет моим топ 1. В течение фильма заметно бросается в глаза это социальное неравенство, особенно через окружение/пространство ( что в бедном доме всегда темно и закрыто, а в богатом всегда ярко + панорамные окна на сад как будто и показывает доступ к «светлой жизнь»).Хорошо расписали персонажей, показав всех с разных сторон, не смотря на статус каждого. по поводу заключения фильма ( с момента празднования др) идет а-ля разрешение этих всех не понимай межклассового конфликта, но все заворачивается в большую ловушку-замкнутый круговорот бедности ( когда Ким (отец) остается в подвале). в каком-то понимание оказавшись в подвале - он возвращается к своему «нижнему миру» на самом низу соц. иерархия. Ну и сцена про мечту и желание купить дом остается лишь грустными желаниями, которые получить можно не сразу же.
фильм безумно понравился, раскрывает социальное неравенство и классовый разрыв🙌🏻
2074. Yorum: Diary Entry for Every Year of Film
Year: 2019
2019 was the first year I was truly following along with all the new releases. I was going to the theatres more, I was using Letterboxd all the time albeit without an account yet, and I was following many accounts on Film Twitter. And I was just learning lots of films actually are first played at festivals before they make it to the theatres.
I was beginning to learn about all the festivals like Cannes, Venice, Berlin, Sundance and even one in my backyard, TIFF. But Cannes seemed to be regarded the highest. And the talk of the talk from Cannes in 2019 was Parasite. And when I saw the talk of talk, I mean everyone was talking about Parasite.
EVERY account that saw Parasite at Cannes was hyping it up as a must-see masterpiece. My feed was all about Parasite. It would go on to win the Palme D'Or, which I found it is the award for best film of the festival, and one of the most prestigious awards a film can get besides the Oscar. Parasite was collecting social hype and accolades like it was nothing.
And then it released in Australia and a bunch of accounts from Australia was singing Parasite's praises. Now it wasn't just the festival going audience, even if people seeing Parasite weren't the average audience member. But it seemed like everyone who did see it was saying it was a must-see, just go in blind and enjoy a masterpiece.
Being new to the film world, I was completely locked in to the hype. I've learned from following festivals and more exposure to the online film whole that films from festivals are always hyped; studios want to build an audience, publications need clicks, and festival viewers like to claim they saw a masterpiece first. Word of mouth has to start somewhere, and it starts in festivals.
But still there was something different about the Parasite hype. We still get things like EE and Dune Part 2, or Barbenheimer. But the Parasite hype seemed to never die down and it was universal. #BongHive was growing on Twitter, and everybody was joining.
So I began mentioning to my friends who weren't as big into film, especially film from festivals and international films. I would mention it here and there, slowly getting my pitch ready. I believed in the hype online and I was trying to pass it on. The problem was it got a limited release at the time, and since I didn't live right in Toronto, we would have to drive quite a bit to get closer to Toronto to a theatre that was playing it.
A friend I usually went to the movies with, wasn't convinced though. He wasn't feeling the international side of things, and didn't want to do the drive. On the flip side, my friend who was Korean and lived in Toronto was game for the movie. But since he was meeting us there, I needed a driver (not because I'm rich, I'm just a loaft and scared to drive).
One of my friends in my friend group was constantly trying to make plans to do stuff, usually to minimal success. So when I presented a plan, he was instantly in even though he said he wasn't a big fan of movies. But he didn't have a car. So I needed to convince one more friend. And I knew one of them liked movies (although his favourite is Catch Me If You Can though and I watched that for this challenge and found it just alright), but didn't like subtitles. But with the power of Letterboxd and Twitter hype, I made him beleive. So I had a driver, and the date was set.
I was genuinely nervous. This was the first time festival hype lead me to a movie, and I got friends involved with said hype. If it didn't live up to it, I would've disappointed that I not only led myself astray but more so my friends. But we all found out that Bong is a master: Parasite more than lived up the hype.
My Korean friend said it was an all-timer, the movie guy who didn't want to watch subtitles agreed it was worth it, and the guy who didn't even movies absolutely loved in. In fact soon after he got into film a lot more. The hype was real, and not just for festival goers.
Parasite would slowly climb the Letterboxd charts. Usually once a film opens up to a wider audience, the scores would drop, but the opposite was happening. And every time it would climb I would let my friends know. The Bong Hive was growing immeasurably; truly EVERYONE loved Parasite and was speaking it's praises.
Then on November 17th, it would was measured, with the #1 spot on Letterboxd. A great day for everyone in the Bong Hive, but Bong didn't stop there.
2019 was also the first year I really paid attention to the Oscars. Many people online made it seem like a pipe dream for a international film to do well at the Oscars. But the hype was there, and it became a little more believable with all the nominations it got. But still many people agreed there was no chance, and 2019 was a stacked year with many great films that would make good winners in different categories.
We had Once Upon A Time In Hollywood from Tarantino, The Irishman from Scorsese, Marriage Story and Little Women, and even though I didn't like them as much, 1917, Jojo Rabbit and Joker had many fans and plaudits.
But either way I was locked in for my first ever Oscars, before I knew about it's reputation. But I went in excited for my first Oscars, especially since I watched a lot of the nominees. And I didn't keep my expectations too high because everyone online. But little we did know, the Bong Hive made it all the way to the Academy.
Parasite SWEPT the big awards: international film, original screenplay, best director and BEST PICTURE. Every time it won I celebrated like it was a goal in soccer. I loved every second of it, and everyone online that I followed since the beginning of the hype rejoiced all the same. And then when it won the big prize, we all couldn't believe it. The first ever international film to win best picture. What a moment in time.
2019 truly was a great year to get into new releases for the first time, and Parasite played a huge part of that. It all started with festival hype, to my own viewing where I convinced friends to watch, to 1st on Letterboxd, and then not only rooting for it at the Oscars, but seeing it win it all. It felt like I was part of something. And I felt spoiled that this was my first year in film, but now I was also hooked.
Now I follow along with all the festivals, and I'm planning to go to TIFF next year for it's 50th anniversary. I've taken my friends to many other festival or international films once they reach the theatres. Every Oscars since, I have completed the Oscar Death Race; a challenge where you watch every single nominee. And in 2020, I finally made my own Letterboxd account, and now I'm 2019 diary entries in all these years later. The Bong Hive changed everything, for me and film media in general.
It speaks to the power of word of mouth online. If something is made as good as Parasite, with everyone connected to everyone on the Internet, it has a chance to become wildly successful. We are all tethered to our phones and Internet (even Parasite opens with a character on his phone looking for the internet) so the social networks (another Fincher call back for the decade) can be hugely influential.
But genuine hype cannot be bought or advertised, Bong Hive or Barbenheimer years later came to fruition naturally. There's no secret formula but having some of the best directors in the world certainly helps. And it also helps that the Internet is "international" too. There's no barriers to the Internet and hype, and Parasite showed there should be no barriers in film either.
Like Bong Joon-ho said on the infamous Oscar night: "Once you overcome the one-inch barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to many more amazing films". Quite the mic drop after making a film that did exactly that and convincing my friends, many on Twitter, Letterboxd, and even the Academy of such for the first time ever.
A huge part of film history that I was actively a part of. So that's why I made Parasite my second ever Criterion Collection purchase. Maybe I should've made it my first, but either way I'm glad I own it.
But I'd almost say the theater ticket I kept almost means more to me; a physical representation of a moment in time, and a whole year where I was hooked. Bong Hive, more like Bong High that I'll forever be chasing with film. As I said earlier, the next step is going to a festival myself and being one of the firsts to promote the word of mouth of films I love online, right here on Letterboxd.
2075. Yorum: Третий просмотр на большом экране, второй была чб версия, и сегодня окончательно убедилась, что этому фильму очень нужен цвет. В этот раз обратила на себя внимание музыка и точность сценария, где каждое слово имеет значение, как умело Пон Джун-хо расставляет важные для его задумки слова-зацепки на протяжении всего фильма. Картина простая и понятная каждому, в этом ли не истинное мастерство Пон Джун-хо. А обсуждение фильма с социологом объяснило ещё больше важных моментов фильма и показало реальный масштаб проблем корейского общества и его расслоения. Теперь осталось добить фильмографию и прочитать новую книжку о корейском мастере.
2076. Yorum: паразиты находят место для успешного паразитирования
2077. Yorum: damn
2078. Yorum: This has to be the best South Korean movie and one of the best movies I've seen. It definitely hit it out of the park with its title ‘Parasite’, because it's all about the poor ‘Kim family’ tricking their way into the rich ‘Park family's’ house to live off their wealth. Watching the guy climb the stairs in the kid's story, even though it's not a horror movie, really had me spooked. And when the maid opened the secret door into the bunker, it made me think the movie was turning into a horror flick. Especially when she started yelling for her "honey", I imagined they were hiding some monster down there or something crazy. But the whole time the camera was following them was just awesome. The tension, fear, and the waiting for something bad to happen made it feel like you were right there with them, being pulled down into it. In short, the movie had no loose ends or gaps in the story, with great acting and characters we could connect with. This really shows how a movie can become pure art, and 'Bong Joon Ho' did an amazing job making it happen.
2079. Yorum: In My Top 100
“It's a chimpanzee, right?"
"A self-portrait.”
Going to the theater to see this in late 2019, I knew nothing except that Bong Joon-ho directed it and that I enjoyed Snowpiercer, the only film of his I had seen. At the time, I didn’t really keep up with the buzz surrounding new releases which allowed me to go in with zero expectations and be completely blown the fuck away.
I was very mildly concerned that I would feel differently rewatching it five years later, but no. Parasite is a masterpiece.
The willing ignorance, the privilege to be and do whatever the fuck they want while those below them kill each other for their scraps. This film captures that like no other. Yeah, the Kims are mean. They have nothing, they’re struggling to survive. You’d be mean too. And this film embraces that and so much more with astounding nuance. 
“If I had all this money, I’d be nice too.”
Ranked: Best Picture Winners
2080. Yorum: 
2081. Yorum: Я реально прихерел…
2082. Yorum: esse daqui é impossível não gostar. muito engenhoso com um desenvolvimento incrível
2083. Yorum: A minha reação quando falam mal de mim é igual a do kim.
Não tenho nada para falar desse filme que já não tenha sido dito. Simplesmente um suspense perfeito, com críticas ótimas. Uma joia do cinema em todos os sentidos. Só aquele finalzinho não me agradou muito, achei meio viajado.
2084. Yorum: rewatched this to see if it would work well for my film class essay... i think im leaning towards using nightcrawler. i have to focus more specifically on marx's media theory vs just his capitalist critiques.
either way this movie is still phenomenal
2085. Yorum: um dos filmes mais criativos que eu já assisti, o roteiro desse filme foi escrito por deuses.
2086. Yorum: I got to tell you, it was perfect. Perfect. Everything, down to the last minute details.
2087. Yorum: Even on a rewatch, it’s insane to see how many different directions this thing goes. As you’re watching it you don’t even know who to root for, who is being glorified/antagonized, and ultimately what light in which the film is trying to communicate its ideas in. It’s masterful storytelling that has no objective, no true way to see what is right and wrong, it’s just chaos, betrayal, the human psyche in full form: the rich want to stay in power, the poor want to climb the ladder; a very simple (and very much overused) foundation for class commentary that’s fully enhanced by the film’s direction, tone, sick sense of humor, and phenomenal performances that speak for themselves. I usually try my best to be as interesting as possible with my opinions but I have to side with the majority here, Parasite is one of the past decade’s absolute masterworks. It’s one of the best films of the 21st century, and it’s one that’ll definitely stand the test of time.
Watched in film class
2088. Yorum: ante cualquier circunstancia de la vida, la solución es ver Parasite, 100% recomendado
2089. Yorum: this is such a palate cleanse of a movie in regards to everything tension building and social satire. was beyond happy to take the boyfriend for his first time viewing of it at a local cinema. quite the cinephile rite of passage these days, dare I say?
2090. Yorum: Yep, still flawless!
I swear, this movie + Bong Joon Ho winning at the Oscars was the last good thing to happen to Hollywood.
2091. Yorum: wtf!! so so so good!! i regret not watching this sooner! even my brother stopped what he was looking at to watch
2092. Yorum: Can't really say anything about Parasite that hasn't already been said. I was about to write a long paragraph on what makes this movie so incredible but everyone else has already done it.
This film is pretty perfect in my eyes.
2093. Yorum: 
2094. Yorum: I think the best kind of movie that discuss social issues is the one that audiences are forced to think and see them on screen, and also be entertaining/engaging throughout the runtime (Parasite, One flew over the cuckoo's nest etc.). Audience shouldn't need to read reviews and explanation videos in order to understand the message of the movie. This one is masterfully done and probably is the best we've had in 2010s.
2095. Yorum: one of the coolest things about Parasite is its core conceit is a sitcom level misunderstanding elevated to an operatic level of drama by weird architecture and the horrors of capitalism.
I thought my rating of this might drop on rewatch (i originally went in completely blind) but that last 30 minutes is like nothing else!
2096. Yorum: two rules for new friends: must share political views and must enjoy parasite
2097. Yorum: no bc i genuinely think this is the best movie ever. not a single flaw. perfect filmography perfect casting perfect directing perfect editing. the peach sequence alone i would give the best picture award. the eyes scene where the little boy sees the basement man?? that is horror. thr constant parallels between each family and their experiences and circumstances. the scene where mr. kim has his dying daughter in his hands and mr. park literally doesn’t care at all and even insults him through gestures. and the way the smell motif gradually builds up until that scene. THE WAY AT THE BEGINNING YOU THINK THE KIM FAMILY IS THE PARASITES BECAUSE OF THE WAY THEY’RE SCAMMING AND USING THE PARK FAMILY GAIN BUT BY THE END YOU KNOW THE PARK FAMILY AND RICH PEOPLE IN GENERAL ARE THE REAL PARASITES BECAUSE OF HOW THEY LEECH OFF AND EXPLOIT THE POOR FOR THEIR OWN GAIN!!!!! oh my god jesus christ best movie ever. bong joon ho you are on a higher plane of existence
2098. Yorum: Fourth viewing.
2099. Yorum: WHAAAAA... AAAAAAHHHHHHH
I’m going to be totally honest. I did not think I was going to love this and I didn’t for the first 20 minutes but oh my gosh is this a masterpiece.
I thought I was going to get annoyed with reading subtitles for the entire movie, but honestly, I forgot it was in a different language sometimes. 
There are sort of many different plots of you know what I mean and it goes from one to the next quite a bit. There’s some amazing twist and turns in there that I did not expect at all. There’s even some great themes about rich vs poor and stuff. 
As of now this is my 3rd favorite of 2019 behind Endgame and The Irishman. 2019 is pretty easily my favorite year for film now. Too many phenomenal movies to talk about.
10/10
P.S. this is not an April Fools Joke
2100. Yorum: It's good to see this again removed from the buzz and hubbub. I like it a bit more. I'm happy it won the big one because that award is so arbitrary and weird that this might as well have it than anything else and it was great to see support and extra publicity for an Asian film. I'm still underwhelmed though (which I'm only saying because of the general consensus on this film). Whatever. It's got lots of strengths and is a very good film and I'm not motivated to share my complaints, which are mostly to do with the class theme. Also, I don't feel qualified to have complaints so I'll keep my mouth shut because apparently the film is dripping with local details and specific commentary on Korean society that I just wouldn't notice or understand.
NB: My tag says "watched with kids" but I knew which bits they couldn't see.
2101. Yorum: Inverse gentrification? That's fucking ingenius. Where was Parasite before I wasted £40k on a degree?
....Unless, I use my degree to become a Maths tutor (notably not a predatory one) and manipulate my way to wealth just like the Kim family.
*Mr Burns voice* Excellent.
Anywho....bullshit aside, I think Parasite's concept is more interesting than its execution. Some characters are more dimensional than others, however most of them felt somewhat impersonal, existing foremostly as metaphors. Likewise, the exploration of classism is commendable, however this didn't leave me with any lingering ruminations (that's not to say it's uninteresting). Also, I can't decide whether this film offers much for the working class, or if it merely panders to the 'woke' upper/middle class. But, that's probably an unfair insinuation upon a first watch. What I will say, is Parasite doesn't give the working class enough credit.
I'm quite conflicted when it comes to Parasite, yet I feel more inclined to say it's over-inflated. I guess grandiose architecture, clad with excessively large glass panels isn't really my scene. Read into that however you wish. For some ineffable reason, this film seems to be missing a certain fervour and candour. Likewise, I can't seem to shake the notion that this exuded an air of condescension at times. That's perhaps just the unremitting cynic in me speaking. That seems likely, given the unwavering tide of five star reviews. Either that, or I'm an uncultured idiot with the sagacity of toddler. That seems even more likely.
I liked this to an extent however I appreciate it more than I enjoy it. Did it come from a unique angle? Yes. Did it work for me? I'm not so sure. The bleak, nihilistic culmination is something I'd usually connect with. Furthermore, I appreciated the clever little twists at the end. Maybe my opinion will be subject to change, especially if I reserve this for when I'm not tired from work. Who knows. I could also windup hating it.
Nevertheless, maliciously rubbing Moon-gwang with peaches was absolutely hilarious.
2102. Yorum: Parasite black & white criterion watch.
You can’t just say this is just a “fuck the rich” type of a movie. Bong Joon-ho shows through the lens that our main characters of the lower class are not necessarily good people. No one here is innocent in Parasite. What Bong does here is show the harsh reality of classism. Jessica even talks down to the maid within the first night she was in the house. No matter what, people will talk down on the class lower than theirs. As the class (stairs) goes lower the more poor the people are. That’s why the rich family is the highest one. Even for their bedrooms. Hard rain doesn’t bother the wealthy family, it’s lovely to be out at night in the rain while the Kim family had to deal with a flood in their home. The family were able to fool the Park’s multiple times in gullible ways. As one would say, “a belt of trust”. But the rich instinct of the city smell throws them off a bit about the father. You can’t tell me this isn’t a technical masterpiece. This is a beauty in black & white. Seen the film three times now. Watching that montage of the peach and the maid is perfectionist. The ending breaks my heart cause it’s the most realistic for Ki-woo.
2103. Yorum: it’s just so fucking good
2104. Yorum: i think parasite is the best movie in the entire world and i should say it ‼️
2105. Yorum: I just watched this movie as an instructive tutorial on how to make ram-don. I think I need to re-watch it anytime soon to make any progress.. (more like try to actually make ram-don but that's beside the point)
On a serious note, Bong Jon Ho's craft made the first hour a comedy, the subsequent 45 minutes a great thriller, the birthday party a horror movie and the last minutes the final bittersweet touch of this masterpiece.
I loved how the movie ended with the same sequence as the opening scene and even the same song, it was poetic. Which reminds me, the score was also outstanding.
2106. Yorum: 
2107. Yorum: "this is so metaphorical"
bong joon ho really assured and said "asian filmmakers rise, it's time to make every awards night not so white."
2108. Yorum: I Watched Parasite And Now I Hate Children And Call Them Bourgeoisie Pigs For Having Fun In The Rain
2109. Yorum: Endlich habe ich Boon Jong-ho's Meisterwerk „Parasite” gesehen, der völlig verdient seine Oscars abgeräumt hat. Dieser Film hat mich ab dem ersten Moment abgeholt, und mich 2 Stunden lang durchgehend beeindruckt. Er hat seinen Platz in meinen Favoriten mehr als verdient. Das Story, Cast, als auch Score atemberaubend waren, brauche ich wohl nicht weiter zu erwähnen. Ich hoffe das ich auch weiterhin schöne Stunden mit „Parasite” verbringen darf.
2110. Yorum: Ive never watched a movie that I wanted to end so soon while loving every minute of it
2111. Yorum: Parasite is an ingeniously crafted film that deftly blends satire, suspense, and thriller genres, making it a truly unique cinematic experience. Bong Joon-ho's writing is richly detailed and elegant, delivering a tale that explores the socio-economic divide between two families.
The unemployed Kim family hatches a plan to exploit the wealthy Park family's needs and maintain their luxurious lifestyle. It's a classic con movie that is executed piece by piece, including stolen handkerchiefs and peaches, and despite the Kim family's deceitful actions, their desperation and unity excuse them as villains, as they live in structures that force them to be self-interested.
While all the characters are unsympathetic at times, the Kim family's cluttered, bug-infested apartment contrasts with the luxurious and minimalistic Park house. Bong's cinematography highlights the social divide that exists, showing the North and South divide in Korea. The relationship between the Kims and Parks becomes increasingly fragile, as secrets and different lifestyles threaten their transactional relationship. The film depicts the wealthy as obnoxious and clueless, and their wealth does not equate to happiness or knowledge.
Bong's use of rhythm and pacing highlights the chosen themes with care, and there is no mystery about the film's intention. Despite the social commentary, Parasite remains suspenseful and entertaining.
The narrative develops shockingly, and the "home invaders" end up being turned on their heads. The climax at a nightmarish garden party is thrilling and unpredictable. The underground bunker is almost supernatural, with a man living below while the oblivious owners sleep above. The characters are desperate due to the insecurity of losing what they've gained - it's a reflection of the very nature of human living, which is based on fear.
Bong explores ideas of class consciousness, leaving it up to the viewer to interpret for themselves. The grand metaphor of how our lives work and how we are largely unaware of it is presented in a way that is both poignant and thought-provoking.
The ending is somber, with the Kim family's reunion initially providing hope before the film concludes on bleak prospects, focusing on the squalid living conditions they're forced to endure. Overall, Parasite is a masterpiece of filmmaking that is sure to be remembered for years to come.
2112. Yorum: Alright, yeah, I get the hype. I’m so glad I finally saw this. My lord, this is a bloody brilliant film. I sat there in shock, unable to process much for probably twenty minutes after the credits started rolling. This film felt like a sucker punch, but it’s a subtle punch because it does not hit the audience over the head with its message yet it is so incredibly clear. You get punched early, but really feel the pain at the end. What an immensely painful and artful film.
For as much as I sing the praises of 1917, this absolutely deserved Best Picture. And that’s about all I can get out for now.
2113. Yorum: SHE EATS ENOUGH FOR TWO
2114. Yorum: "Parasite" ist nicht nur eine bissige, gesellschaftskritische Satire über die Schere zwischen Arm und Reich und den Klassenkampf, sondern auch ein Thriller, eine Black Comedy und ein Familiendrama, dass mit neuen Wendungen und überspitzten, grandiosen Situationen von vorn bis hinten unterhält.
2115. Yorum: 1st viewing:
As of now, if i see any movie that uses the imagery of 'Stairs' for some sort of symbolism, I will say out loud "Awwwwwwwww. What a cute tribute to Parasite."
2116. Yorum: Kellermensch
More like “PARA-SEEEEEJT”! Don’t worry; the Danes will understand it and cherish this review. And one day, they’ll do a t-shirt of it.
Directed by Bong Joon-ho
2117. Yorum: PARASITE NATION WE WON
2118. Yorum: THE
BONG
LORD
2119. Yorum: 
2120. Yorum: On one level Parasite is a thrilling, entertaining and unpredictable tale that will keep you guessing and literally keep you sitting up as you watch it. On a higher level this film will go down in history as an insightful exploration of the economic disparity of our current world. 
And another level, basements are still creepy. “It’s so metaphorical.”
2121. Yorum: bong joon-ho got IN HIS BAG!
2122. Yorum: Black and white hits differently
2123. Yorum: You Picked, I Watched.
Films Seen At The Cinema
Champions League Of Directors 🏆 #15
W🌍RLD MAP 🇰🇷
85/100
I avoided reviews and trailers for this for so long but now it's finally reached the UK it was time to see if it deserved all the hype.
I should have had no doubts, the previous 3 films I'd seen by the director had all been very good and this was brilliant.
Definitely glad I kept myself away from the reviews as there are far too many that give things away.
Whenever I'm still thinking about a film several days later you know it's made an impact, but I actually dreamt about this film, it really burrowed in deep.
I've now seen all but one film of the Oscar best film nominees and this is by far the best of the bunch, yet I fear it'll have to settle for best International film.
What's next?
You Pick, I Watch©
2124. Yorum: somehow watching this for a second time with a packed theater of obnoxious elderly white people made it even better. their laughing at human suffering amplified the impact parasite had on me from scene to scene. the perfectly-tuned anger onscreen feels so tangible and poignant that it’s hard to imagine anyone not empathizing or making an effort to understand, which is why this film is so vital.
2125. Yorum: it keeps clinging to me
after the first tone shift, everything just keeps coming at you faster and faster. it shifts again and again and you're never ready for it. it's beautiful and terrifying.
halfway through you start getting the same feeling you'd get on a highway, knowing there's a car crash coming up. you don't want to look and yet, since you're already forced to slow down, you take a peak and you can't look away.
that rain was such a blessing
you're uneasy the whole way through and you know damn well why. and there's this loneliness, this sadness to every action, every word. not to be too on the nose but this movie hits you over the head with a rock. there's no escaping its message, there's no 'simply enjoying good cinema'. it transcends that. it demands your attention but above that it demands you understand it.
you know what kind of plan that never fails? no plan. no plan at all.
and then there's the official script with the ending being all 'over black - music plays. bright, but with an undertone of hopelessness' and you feel the hopelessness because ki-woo has laid out this plan for getting his dad out of that house but you're only relieved for a fraction of a second before you know. you remember ki-taek's because life cannot be planned and there's this sense of doom, of helplessness despite -- no, because there's now a plan in place to rescue ki taek. it feels like schrödinger's hope.
and i could go on and on but mr. incredible vc: i'm not strong enough
what a way to start my 2020
2126. Yorum: I would do anything to watch this movie for the first time again.
2127. Yorum: truly a different experience when someone next to u is screaming “HE’S ANGRY CAT TYPING HER PUSSY”
2128. Yorum: No director working today does tonal shifts as intensely and effectively as Bong Joon-ho. Parasite starts uncomfortably funny, morphs into skin-crawling terror, then settles on gut-wrenching emotional turmoil. It had me utterly hooked and consistently surprised. It's been a while since I've seen a film that creates such a tangible physical environment. Most of the story unfolds in an obscenely expensive and beautifully designed house. It is so beautifully tied into the action. Joon-ho and crew always make sure we know exactly where we are. It is also a powerful reflection of the film's themes, especially in harsh comparison to the semi-basement dwelling we open with. The players that move within the house are all brilliant. Song Kang-ho's small moments are as impressive as his violent turns. Cho Yeo-jeong is wonderfully tense, and Lee Sun-kyun is quietly despicable. Park So-dam is the highlight with her raucous, manipulative, drunken performance. I hope to see her in more things. Like Snowpiercer and Memories of Murder, Parasite left me buzzing and pleasantly shell-shocked. I can't wait to see where Joon-ho goes next.
2129. Yorum: Around the World Challenge - South Korea
2019: RANKED
What do I say that has not already been said a thousand times? The house was amazing in design; not only as a house, but as a character and integral piece of the story. And while it makes sense, I was surprised and happy to see it was a set completed just for the film. Yeah, the story in insane, the characters are hilarious and just awful at the same time, acting is incredible, cinematography is stunning, and direction keeps it all together nicely, but having the foresight to plan the house from nothing in which the story occupies, along with the families and the chaos that ensues just reiterates the dedication to making the absolute best film they could.
2130. Yorum: Poor families taking it out on each other to please the rich instead of taking it out on the rich. Capitalism and American politics in a nutshell
2131. Yorum: One of the best films of the year.
A brilliant mix of tension and humor. The first half of the film does a tremendous job of making you understand this family and their dynamics. Some of the humor allows you to let your guard down a bit and then the film promptly smacks you right in the face for it.
Beautifully shot, superbly acted and written. The pacing is fantastic and always keeps you engaged and wanting to see what will happen next. While the story may be a little predictable at times everything still feels earned throughout the film and it doesn't detract at all from your enjoyment. Executed perfectly on almost every level.
2132. Yorum: 
2133. Yorum: FUCK IT 10/10
Didn’t watch again, but I plan on it. Definitely buying the blu Ray. 
2019 went from being a generic year to being one of the best of the decade in the second half of the year.
2134. Yorum: Always a fascinating filmmaker, Bong Joon-ho has really pulled off something special with PARASITE. At times hilarious and horrifying the film is a roller coaster of the disparity of those with wealth and those who want a taste of it.
The remarkable thing he pulls off is the amount of compassion he engenders for both sides. There are no villains in this piece, only those who make bad decisions. It is true that the primary family are cons who are bending the system to their own desires, but it doesn't come off as from a place of anger or unfairness. They just live a life that has to exist on the generosity and foolishness of those who have more than they do.
By the same token the wealthy family are not mean spirited, only vain and foolish. They certainly invited this on themselves by being unaware and naive. Joon-ho balances this delicately.
It is nice to see him not give in to his more outrageous tendencies going for a more realistic take on the events. OKJA and THE HOST were often derailed slightly by the broadness of some of the performances and situations giving them an air of ridiculousness that damaged the overall tone. Here he gets it exactly right, keeping a light touch even when absurd situations occur.
While it is not a perfect film, some moments really drag and I felt the time crawling at points, but it is close. It is nice to see audiences responding to this so favorably and that gives me hope that even more voices from different cultures will be able to break through.
2135. Yorum: boss make a dollar, I make a dime 
and that’s why I eat the rich on company time

Us (dir. by Jordan Peele) WISHES
2136. Yorum: Uh, Bong hit!
97%
2137. Yorum: this really is that fucking good.
bong joon-ho really shook up the entire film industry right at the end of the decade, and the 2020s will be a revolutionary decade for film; mark my words. this film will go on to be one of the most influential and important films of all time, and for good reason. this film is deserving of the tremendous amounts of praise it's receiving. simply put, it's among the most stunning pieces of cinema I've ever seen. it bends genres with ease, allowing the film to breathe in areas a film normally would not. parasite is not just a film. it is a critique of the mindset of modern classism that plagues the world. every technical aspect is handled flawlessly. but, more importantly, the film stands up incredibly when looked at through a personal lens, as well. it's beautiful, it's tragic, and more than anything, it's achingly, soul-crushingly, real. it's unfortunately real, even. something so awful shouldn't be so real. something so awful should only exist in the movies. but, that's not how that the world works. the world is an ugly place and bong joon-ho knows what the plague is, but it seems that there's no cure. there'll always be someone in the basement, be it a homeless man or a father and husband turned killer. and there'll always be a resident of that big house, be it wealthy koreans or wealthy germans. it's all the same. and people moving up from the basement will always bring with them a smell that the ones above will not be able to stand. because at the end of the day, they will deem their petty needs more important than the life of those who they employ.
2138. Yorum: Loved this rampage of violence and class rage until everyone else decided they also love it and now I think it's overrated and represents American colonial fantasies where a critique of economic injustice is only valid from a safe distance within a racial minority that flatters the vain politics of the left and disregarded if it comes from anywhere closer to home.
But yeah it's a really good movie.
2139. Yorum: This movie goes from “ha ha!” to “oh no!” so subtly that you don’t really notice it’s an “oh no” moment until you’re like “oh no!!!”
Anyways, this is up there with Midsommar for film of the year for me.
2140. Yorum: ALL ASPECTS OF THIS FILM IS A+
IT'S ALL SLY AND HILARIOUS UNTIL IT GOES DELICIOUSLY DARK
MY MIND = BLOWN
2141. Yorum: PARASITE has one of the most inventive and wild stories of the year. With so many unexpected surprises and a cast of wonderfully amusing characters, this film is absolutely mesmerizing and you won't look away.
Despite this film being so popular, and seen by so many people already, I was able to go into it relatively blind. I had no idea what the story was going to be about. That left me with a complete sense of wonderment and joy as the story began to unfold. Weird and humorous, but at the same time has some social commentary.
Director Bong Joon-ho has an absolute hit in PARASITE and has such an interesting mixture of genres in his filmography. I feel like I've been officially welcomed to the #BONGHIVE now
2142. Yorum: Overstimulating, overwhelming, and mutant after all, this film ends as its beginning and the tagline have planned.
Honestly, the best of 2019 so far.
2143. Yorum: Fantastically shot with clever camera positions and well thought out set design. Joon Ho's latest was awarded the Palm D'Or at Cannes and you can see why. His previous films have had something to say about societal structures, norms and practices. This is no different with issues if materialism / class boundaries at play. There's also nods to South Korea's relationship with the North and the USA.
There are a couple of moments that rely on the viewer suspending their belief (the final act is a bit much) but the film isn't supposed to be a literal tale - more a figurative piece. The direction of this film is absolutely magical, even if the sum of it's parts doesn't quite live up to the hype.
7.7/10
2144. Yorum: No deja de sorprenderme el inigualable ritmo que tiene esta cinta, todo el tiempo es hacia arriba, y hacia arriba, y hacia arriba, un jodido no parar. Bong Joon-ho en control total de absolutamente todo. Y la película de que va, pues de parásitos, pero no de insectos, sino de cuando las personas se convierten en auténticos parásitos de la sociedad, donde la clase social importa y algunos te ven por encima del hombro y otros se esconden debajo del hombro, lo cual seguirá desencadenando la eterna lucha de clases de los siglos de los siglos. ¡¡Peliculón!!
2145. Yorum: 
2146. Yorum: SHOPLIFTERS ON DRUGS!
2147. Yorum: Since the announcement of Palme d'Or for Best Film, there has been a big curiosity rising about Bong Joon-ho's Parasite. Storytelling is one aspect that flows through the movie, the characters and everything surrounding it. Parasite presses into something so unique and yet so real at point that you are awe struck by the beautiful flow of it.
Returning from the triumph that was Okja, Bong steps into a territory of social status that of the one percent and the working class structure that slowly builds into a magnificent display of cinema. Kim's family is getting through their ends meet by folding pizza boxes. They have to stand into corners just to get a wi fi signal. There are no opportunities but one day opportunity knocks on their door and they take full benefit of it...Until...
Well I am not going to talk any further about this movie as I want everyone reading this to enjoy and experience the movie to its fullest. It is one of a kind experience and when the credits roll, you just start to clap or have an reaction you haven't had for a while. The beauty this movie possess, the performances the stay and each turning of events that slowly build... it is just exceptional to take it all in.
Masterpiece! We have our Best Foreign Language Film of this year!
2148. Yorum: In cinema
2019 - Ranked
I wasn’t familiar with korean cinema at all. Now I wish I was sooner. This is a masterpiece. Totally deserving palm’s winner.
2149. Yorum: South Korean auteur Bong Joon-Ho has left his usual scifi haunts for something more regular - though his usual thematic preoccupations of class and inequality are stronger than ever. Parasite uses the tonal mastery Bong has quietly developed and finds it unleashed at full force with a film that is wildly funny, tense, dark, poignant, moving, thought provoking, and enraging - all coherently so, more's the astonishment.
It's hard to get into what makes the film so great without giving spoilers but suffice to say - what starts out innocently enough as a film in which a poor family take advantage of of a rich one - only a master director could lead us through the decisions each character makes in the course of the film as events unfold. Director Bong's use and awareness of space is excellent as well; the large house that is the setting for much of the film being a character unto itself and the audience is never left confused or in doubt of the geography of any scene (the set designers deserve accolades here too). Of course the cast led by frequent Bong muse Song Kang-Ho are excellent, with Kang-Ho himself selling some of the film's pivotal moments on subtle facial expressions. Despite two families in the story being from different economic backgrounds, the actors imbue each character richly never making any to be a stereotype; a crucial aspect in the film's success. The score only compliments Bong's ability to be a tonal chameleon, with dissonant but always appropriate accompaniments - which only serve to highlight when a tonal shift occurs.
Parasite is the culmination of Director Bong's filmography to this point, both thematically and technically. Director Bong has lost none of his razor sharp observations about the economic divides that pervade his home of South Korea, and indeed the world, that have only gotten worse during his career. His technical skill guides us through a narrative that any lesser film maker would stumble over. Parasite lives up to its namesake - once you've seen this film it will sit inside you, gestating, and feeding on your thoughts, and your rage. Director Bong doesn't issue a call to arms, but cannily paints us a picture of a world too familiar and all too probable. We'll be coming back to this one for years.
2150. Yorum: holy SHIT i laughed i cried a number of times i sweat i danced i got a shot i ate and i had many epiphanies literally i laughed i cried a number of times i sweat i danced i got a shot i ate and i had many epiphanies
2151. Yorum: SFF2019
Parasite is a masterpiece and I can see why it got a unanimous win for the Palme d'Or. It's funny, dark, and shocking.
Watched at the State Theatre as part of the Sydney Film Festival.
#SydFilmFest
2152. Yorum: It’s getting to the point where I’m beginning to pick up on all of the intricacies of this film. Like how the man in the basement mentions he went bankrupt investing in a cake company, the same cake company that the dad mentions he was fired from a few scenes prior. Bong Joon-ho is a genius.
2153. Yorum: my first watch in almost 4 years. it felt like i was watching it for the first time. i forgot a lot of the plot points so i was incredibly invested throughout. i had to watch this for my film as literature class and will soon be writing an essay about its shot composition, so it was amazing to take a closer look at the film’s cinematography and analyze the crap out of it. how the camera pans reveal the stark contrast in social statuses, how one can enjoy a lovely rainy evening while another is scrambling for their livelihood…my piano skills have greatly improved the past year so i took special note of the score as well. man, it’s awesome. jung jae-il is scoring mickey17 too so i’m especially looking forward to that. i just can’t wait for bong joon-ho’s grand followup in general. it may be a january movie now but i like to think of it as a birthday gift.
uh. yeah. parasite good. whoda thunk?
once🗣️you🗣️overcome🗣️the🗣️one🗣️inch🗣️tall🗣️barrier🗣️of🗣️subtitles🗣️you🗣️will🗣️be🗣️introduced🗣️to🗣️so🗣️many🗣️more🗣️amazing🗣️films🗣️
2154. Yorum: I don't know what to say other than I'm blown away. I'm completely shook by what I just witnessed and I will probably remain shook for a while. So much happened in this that I don't think I can give it a 10/10 until I sit with it for a while but man that was incredible. So intricately put together with amazing performances and killer directing from the absolute master that is Bong Joon-ho. from Memories of Murder to THIS. I don't know if it's better than Memories of Murder yet but I do know that Bong Joon-ho is on a level that only a few directors are at for me. He's that good. Song Kang-ho not getting nominated for this has gotta be one of the worst decisions the Academy has ever made. Robbed. But yeah i'm glad this took home Best Picture cuz it's incredible.
2155. Yorum: FUUUCK FUUCK THIS IS AWESOME. It will shock you halfway through. Hold your loved ones close. They will need your Reassurance as tensions rise
2156. Yorum: 2019 Ranking 
My Top 100 Films of All-Time 
SAG prayer circle rewatch, and boy does this ensemble hold up.
You could've made an All-Asian Supporting Actress lineup just out of Cho Yeo-jeong, Park So-dam, Lee Jung-eun, Jang Hye-jin and add in Zhao Shuzhen for The Farewell to get an all-time great Supporting Actress lineup. And man do we take Song Kang-ho for granted. Whether it's delivering some of the most hilarious facial expressions or breaking out hearts with his 'no plan' scene - after all, this is the man essential to one of the great endings of all-time in Memories of Murder . Reaction shots - some people are just built different to deliver 'em.
Anyway, yeah, fingers crossed for SAG to be inspired again in a couple of hours' time.
2157. Yorum: It feels so amazing to finally see this gem again, and it even feels extra amazing bc I got to rewatch it with my boyfriend awww 🥺👉🏼👈🏼  💓  hahahahaha ✌️ 
But srsly, we really had a great time revisiting Parasite; discussing and letting all the emotions from the film get into us together  🙈
2158. Yorum: 
2159. Yorum: A laugh turns into a snarl which gets in the thought like a sob - or an arrow through the neck - in Bong Joon-Ho's latest wild, wild ride, Parasite. On a Letterboxd reveiw, that might not sound so very different from watching Bong's Snowpiercer, Memories Of Murder, The Host or Okja. The Korean trickster god is above all known for his uncategorisable movie melees which tumble bloodily down the genre stairs hitting every step - comedy, horror, drama, social commentary, slasher, creature feature, murder mystery, manifesto for vegetarianism - on the way. But while Parasite certainly cycles through more than half the list, the vicious and sob more despairing than we've ever had from him before. Bong is back and on brilliant form, but he is unmistakably, roaringly furious, and it registers because the target is so deserving and enormous, so 2019: Parasite is a tick fat with the bitter blood of class range. It doesn't start that way. With typical feint-and-parry dexterity, the film begins as a so-close-its- almost-self-conscious Korean reworking of the last year's Palme d' Or winner Shoplifters. Here too we have a ramshackle but loving family driven dubious extremes by poverty-stricken circumstances and a rumpled patriarch who bursts amusingly with pride at even the most marginal of kids achievements.
"Does Oxford have a course in forgery?"
From their squalid "semi basement", all four members of this family, including their ex - champion shot-putter mother struggle to find menial gig-economy jobs and an unlocked Wi-Fi signal. But then Ki-Woo's is offered the chance to replace a friend as the tutor for, daughter of the wealthy Parks.
Suddenly Ki-Woo's days of folding Pizza boxes for peanuts are behind him, and instead he hangs out with his lovestruck student and her daintily pretty naive mother, in their spacious architect-desinged home. Although this is the least loopy title from director Bong in a while, the first act bounces by with a devil-may-care gait as the scam expands and expands, things start to look up for the family and while they've been roughish, no one has done anything so unforgivable yet!
2160. Yorum: Parasite. A name that proves it’s worth throughout the duration of the movie. A parasitic relationship both ways. One for money. Another so any menial task could be done. But as the movie draws on it becomes more complex. It is hard to distinguish who is the host and who is the blood sucking insect at points. This blending of symbolism that seems to come from every direction overwhelms but also enlightens the audience on just how complex the word of Social classes can be especially when many levels are thrust together. Truely an excellent take on an age old matter.
Yet, I couldn’t help but think to myself as I watched this movie is it because the roles are betrayed by a race that can seem so alien to western audiences that we gravitated to it more? Further so did the fact that captions had to be read, that we had to listen to a foreign language hurt? Or actually did it help? Don’t get me wrong these roles were excellently played by the cast but if played by a typical western race such  as white or black is this still seen as the phenomenon it is today. Surely the story is amazing but I also think the foreign canvas it was placed on helped to drive home its points. A clean slate of sorts welcomed to be digested by the western audience 
Parasite indeed.
2161. Yorum: Who knew the solution to poverty was simply deciding to earn money
2162. Yorum: Wir kommen gerade aus dem Kino und ich bin fix und fertig. Ich kannte die Prämisse des Films (Gruß geht raus an Markus). Aber ich hatte keine Ahnung vom Twist.
Die Unter-dem-Tisch-Szene ist so un-fucking-fassbar spannend, dass ich die Menschen im Keller darüber komplett vergessen hatte und erst als der Sohn nach der Auflösung dieser Szene fragte, was man nun mit denen da unten tun solle, fiel mir wieder ein: HEILIGE SCHEISSE, die gibt es ja auch noch!!! Und das war erst der Anfang der fortdauernden Eskalationsspirale. Ich brauche Baldrian!
2163. Yorum: Thinking about the brief moment the Kims consider the old driver and whether he's found a new job or not, and how they're sure he has because he looked so nice and clean cut, he has to have found a new job by now, thinking about being desperate, and this is dumb but I spent the whole movie thinking about the X song "We're Desperate," and about the scene in Decline of Western Civilization when Exene worries they're not going to be able to play that song much longer because people will say "sure they're desperate, I just paid six dollars to see this band, they're not desperate," but Exene also says "there's worse ways of being desperate than being poor," thinking about how I'm not desperate anymore but that's because I spent the last two years pretty consistently working seven days a week and convincing myself I didn't need a consistent day off because I'm friends with my coworkers, so if I want to see my friends I can just come to work, thinking about how, when I was desperate, anything seemed good and worth it and I would've done anything for steady money, and you have thoughts like, "maybe selling pictures of my feet to perverts on the internet wouldn't be that bad if it means I could afford to pay rent and buy groceries," not that I ever got any offers, I wouldn't know how to go about setting that up and plus I have gross feet, but the desperate idea is still there, thinking about how I never notice how much the smell of chocolate popcorn clings to me until I wash my hair and the hot water heightens it, thinking about the wealth rock clinging to Ki-woo and the deluge that comes, first a stream of drunk piss, then buckets to shoo the piss away, then the flood, and you have to sit on the toilet to keep the brown water from shooting out, thinking about how the Parks are "nice because they're rich," thinking about how the Parks could come see this movie but the Kims probably work weekends, thinking about all the people this movie's critiquing coming to see it at my theater and leaving their half-eaten large popcorn and empty wine cups in their seats for me to clean up, how that gives me something to do, right, that's my job, even though we have trash cans in the lobby and lining the walls of the horseshoe leading to the theater, thinking about how much more bitter I am now than when I started working in the service industry, I'm not nice like the madame of the house, people make little "ooh, who wants to help me mooore?" jokes when two registers are open and they do a little shuffle between the two open registers like they can't decide and I don't laugh, so they usually choose the other register, thinking about haunted houses, thinking a lot about the "do you still have those cheap panties" "I want drugs" sex fantasy scene, how sexy and kinky it is to be poor
2164. Yorum: Compare the living room windows of the Kim and Park families. Parasite's opening shot begins with the former - a vantage point that is below street level, permeable to all of the filth, clatter, and hardship of the slums. Moments into the film, Kang-ho Song's Ki-taek Kim encourages leaving the windows open so that pesticide can seep into the apartment and exterminate an infestation of stink bugs for free (or the low cost of the family's discomfort). Though the Park family's window is more readily transparent - a floor to ceiling glass exterior - it looks out upon a barrier to the rest of Korean society; hedges taller than the residents wall off the outside world, sealing off the family's lavish mansion. Dong-ik Park repeatedly warns Ki-taek not to "cross the line" referring to the candor of their conversation, but Joon-ho Bong suggests that line is a lot more metaphorical ("It's so metaphorical!"). In the world of Parasite (and, considering Burning deals with similar issues, contemporary Korean society, in general) the layers - or lines - stratifying the classes are akin to hermetic seals. The wealthy treat the poor like a disease, anxious that if their staff are not vetted correctly the "wrong" people could get in. Of course, like with any parasite, infection is often inevitable.
The stratification is not only horizontal (the view out the respective windows), but vertical. Comically vertical, in fact, as a series of shots after the climax of the film indicate through the Kims' extended descent from the Park mansion back to their own semi-basement level home. In a society where the elite literally live atop the impoverished, how could there not also be a toxic power dynamic? Much of the film's humor revolves around the Kim family gaining a sort of dominance over the Parks by outsmarting them to leech off their fortune. Of course, Joon-ho also emphasizes how this sort of stratification creates infighting between those at the bottom, all of them ready to claw and scrape to attain a slightly higher position. A pivotal scene pointedly shows the Kims - now glutted on a taste of the Park's wealth - adopting the callous egotism that comes with the insulation of wealth. Yet, no matter what sort of upper hand they think they have attained, they can never truly become betters or even equals of the Parks; they will always be a nagging smell.
As the conclusion of the film indicates, money, counter to one character's claim, is not an iron; it only seems to flatten out the disparity between the classes from the perspective of those with the iron. Those at the bottom will always have to gaze from afar at those above them.
2165. Yorum: Still marvelous and captivating until the woefully disappointing third act. Brilliantly conceived and structured. If only it stuck the landing.
Read my full review on Cinema Etc.
2166. Yorum: they said if downton abbey was successful they'd consider doing a sequel but man i wasnt expecting it only a few weeks later!
2167. Yorum: this is so metaphorical
my friends don’t even like watching films in english w subtitles. the actual power i have to have dragged them to watch this foreign masterpiece. we’re prospering now ladies. Bong hive unite
2168. Yorum: (disclaimer- I had a screener for this. I like the film a lot and plan to rush to the theatre when it releases October 11th if it comes anywhere near me)
Parasite was one of my most anticipated of the year. I've seen almost all of Bong Joon-ho's filmography and find him to be easily one of the most interesting filmmakers working right now. With "The Host" (my favorite film of his) he made the perfect modern day Kaiju movie. Here, I thought he would go for a "infection parasite" type of film and the film certainly threw off my expectations.
This movie is a slow burn and it took me a bit to really get what it was doing. Once it clicked though, I understood the true brilliance of Parasite. This might be his most well realized film yet. The screenplay here is absolutely masterful and the way the film plays on your emotions is great. You can definitely tell when you are watching one of Joon-ho's films because he perfectly balances drama and comedy in no way I've seen directors do. I mean, there can be a dreadfully disturbed scene followed up by a light hearted one and it usually all works. The only film of his I dislike for its jarring tones is Okja. I think the rest of them he nails exactly what he wants to accomplish.
The use of space in this movie and the way sequence of events unfold is masterful. This is one that could certainly be used in film school on good storytelling. The movies ending was just so incredibly unsatisfying for all the right ways. I don't know how to describe it, but it definitely makes its impact.
Yeah, 2019 is definitely showing its great movies in the 2nd half of the year.
2169. Yorum: Watching Parasite is probably the cinematic equivalent of falling down a rabbit hole. It's full of surprises and twists. I LOVED every second of this film.
I laughed. I gasped. I was completely blown away by this brilliantly constructed, genre-bending film. Bong's dissection of class clash is masterful and clever Parasite is many things all at once. An absurd dramady about a lower-class family playing a dangerous con game. An unpredictable home-invasion thriller. A parable on class polarization. A testament to Bong's abilities to juggle multiple tones and to tell a convoluted story without losing a connection with his audiences. It's currently my favourite of 2019.
Memories of Murder remains my favourite Bong Joon-ho movie though. But this one is right up there as one of his best.
2019 releases ranked
2170. Yorum: i cannot stress this enough but this is THE best movie ever made. a masterpiece in every way. felt incredible watching it again i was SOBBING at the end. cant believe 5 years have passed already everything that can be said about this movie has already been said but THE FUCKING THEMES AND ITS TAKEAWAY MESSAGE i genuinely think abt it a lot.
song kang-ho the man that you are
2171. Yorum: 
2172. Yorum: Os coreanos têm o molho/Koreans got the sauce (🇧🇷/🇬🇧)
🇧🇷 O cinema coreano me apetece bastante, mas eu sempre deixava esse filme pra depois, porque quando fui ver pela primeira vez, em 2019, eu tomei uns spoilers e perdi um pouco a vontade.
Todo mundo já sabe do que se trata o filme, e realmente o tema da diferença de classes é muito bem abordado, mesmo não sendo um tópico novo, ainda mais se tratando da Coreia do Sul, que sempre fez esse tipo de crítica.
É um filmaço, e também um filme muito importante para o cinema asiático, reabrindo as portas antes abertas no começo dos anos 2000 com Oldboy e Memories of Murder.
Acho que da pra dizer que a popularidade alcançada por Parasita (e até o K-pop furando a bolha) tenha influenciado a onda de Doramas, que vêm sendo cada vez mais consumidos pelos ocidentais.
🇬🇧 I really love Korean cinema, but I always left this film for later, because when I went to see it for the first time, in 2019, I got some spoilers and lost the desire a little.
Everyone already knows what the film is about, and the topic of class difference is really well covered, even though it is not a new topic, especially when it comes to South Korea, which has always made this type of criticism.
It's a great film, and also a very important film for Asian cinema, reopening the doors previously opened in the early 2000s with Oldboy and Memories of Murder.
I think it's safe to say that the popularity achieved by Parasite (and even K-pop breaking the bubble) has influenced the wave of Dramas, which are being increasingly consumed by the western civilization.
2173. Yorum: holy shit! that was insane. why did i just watch this now. was not what i was expecting but still enjoyed it
2174. Yorum: A movie so good, I had a panic attack during it
2175. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there’s no need for a plan. You can’t go wrong with no plans. We don’t need to make a plan for anything. It doesn’t matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. Got it?” - Kim Ki-taek
Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is a dark comedy film. The film follows a poor family who infiltrate the life of a wealthy family. The film stars Song Kang-ho, Lee Sun-kyun, Cho Yeo-jeong, Choi Woo-shik, Park So-dam, and Jang Hye-jin.
 The film’s ensemble cast led by Kang-ho all gives immaculate, remarkable, compelling, haunting performance. The screenplay is so incredible and I love how each family is essentially a “parasite” to each other as both mutually benefit from the other. The cinematography and score is amazing! The 4K Blu-ray transfer is stunning. Definitely, one of my new favorite films of all time!  Overall, Joon-ho cooked so hard with this film! I can’t believe this is my 1,000th film review logged on Letterboxd!
2176. Yorum: This will be the last movie I watch until my flight with my gf to the Philippines but I gotta say this movie is different in its own way. The movie takes a complete turn and takes the audience for a wild ride of awes and shocks. Great symbolism and realism. Can’t wait what the Philippines will bring when it comes to film!
2177. Yorum: “we ordered it from the U.S., it’ll be fine” … said no one ever
2178. Yorum: ya no me sirve vivir a medias la experiencia de ver esto por primera vez a través de cada persona que me rodea, necesito un botón que me ayude a olvidarla las veces que quiera para poder alcanzar de nuevo mi nivel más alto de felicidad
2179. Yorum: Você sabe que tipo de plano nunca falha?
Não fazer nenhum plano. Sabe por quê?
Se você faz um plano... a vida nunca funciona como você espera.
Esse filme é simplesmente magnífico.
O filme está em uma completa armonia, com personagens fantásticos com uma química entre eles que é extraordinária, uma direção e um roteiro extraordinário, ela é simplesmente uma Obra Prima.
2180. Yorum: What makes this movie different is its subtly presented dialogue, nuances or symbols that makes all the difference when it comes to its final few scenes. The movie uses these features so cleverly to express its motif of how class can be binding, dictating your behaviour and attitudes. Even better on 2nd viewing as you notice more clever plot devices.
2181. Yorum: What can I say that’s not already been said, a complete masterpiece in every way. 
Introduced this to the family today and I’m very happy to say they agree it’s one of the greatest films ever made.
2182. Yorum: noticed so many details this time round oh my god
2183. Yorum: IMDb Top 100 / WATCHLIST 
Films I'm Embarrassed I've Never Seen
Bong Joon Ho 
Best Picture: 2020: Parasite 
Another Palme D’Or I’ve watched recently, this time from 2019!
An excellent effort from Bong Joon Ho. Though I haven’t seen any of his other works; this was highly praised in comparison (I’m aware Memories of Murder is also well-acclaimed; that’s another on the watchlist). He's had his ups and downs over the years, although they've generally been ups rather than downs, but this is perhaps his towering masterpiece- again this is only based on what I’ve heard. It's a quiet and reflective work, and some believe it to be his most mature yet, a *parable* playing out which looks at class divide in a scathing and extremely telling way.
The issue is universal, which is why this film did so well abroad (and at the Oscars), after watching, and thoroughly enjoying, Past Lives I feel I need to venture more into South Korean cinema. The technical qualities are exemplary and the acting is particularly astounding, with an unusual storyline building to an unexpected climax. Thoroughly entertaining, but also so thought-provoking.
2184. Yorum: 
2185. Yorum: SAWBUCK
Money
Made the heroes we exalt
Displayed upon the two-page spreads
Ambition’s calculated total to excess
Gracious enough to wink at us
There’s only room among the fortunes for a few
Fewer still, that ever had a day
When they didn’t have
A lot of
Money
Money
Makes the cowards take a risk
Makes edges smooth along your fingertips
Makes viaducts, like little paths, or
Plans, for where the water goes when there’s a bit too much
It channels down, until it pools
Down, where the mildew people live
You know, the ones who haven’t got
A lot of
Money
Money
Makes a mountain
One in millions just might summit
The moment that I think it might be me
My neighbors start resembling the footstools that I need
We’ll crawl atop each other just to catch a glimpse
Of comfort you can only get
When you have got
A lot of
Money
Money
Is gonna pull my people up
From being buried, down in bunkers
They’ll go outside and remember the sunlight
How it shines on all the rich and poor ones
How the weather doesn’t seem to care about
Whether or not
You’ve got
A lot of
Money

Movies that are important to me:
letterboxd.com/akabanerowsdowe/list/movies-that-are-important-to-me/
2186. Yorum: i went into that clueless and holy shit
2187. Yorum: the ending is the alternative beginning of the twilight saga
2188. Yorum: i did it. i finally watched it. now you can all shut up
2189. Yorum: DAMN
That was absolutely insane
I'm speechless
2190. Yorum: Underrated movie, you guys should check this out it deserves more recognition, especially on letterboxd
2191. Yorum: Oh my God! This was amazing! I will never forget the first time I watched this! I was expecting it to be amazing and IT SURPASSED MY EXPECTATIONS! *chefs kiss*
2192. Yorum: I’m glad I finally got around to this. Thrilling from start to finish, Parasite blends together several different concepts and combines it with great direction and pacing. It’s easy to see why it won best picture, it deserves all the hype it gets. The main negative I suppose I had was that I feel like the ending was a bit prolonged. I think it would’ve been better if the film was 10-15 minutes shorter. Regardless, I’m super excited to check out a lot more of Bong Joon-ho’s work and Korean cinema in general. Just from this film alone you can already see his immense quality as a filmmaker.
2193. Yorum: finally watched the black and white version of parasite, and though the film may not necessarily be better this way, the monochrome color palet really does give it an entirely different feel.
bong joon-ho said it best himself:
i watched the black and white version twice now, and at times the film felt more like a fable and gave me the strange sense that i was watching a story from old times. the second time i watched it, the film felt more realistic and sharp as if i was being cut by a blade. it also further highlighted the actors’ performances and seemed to revolve more around the characters.
while i do love the use of color in parasite, as joon-ho alluded to, performances and particular scenes become that much more intensified without it. the staircase scene alone was enough of a reason to give this version of the film a release, absolutely haunting in black and white.
2194. Yorum: I pretty much remembered each moment, which is usually not the norm. The last time was just two years ago, but I've also had other rewatches with a similar time difference where I had forgotten a lot. It speaks to how special the film is considering how much it has permeated the landscape culturally and it speaks to how unforgettable it is considering it doesn't fade out of your mind. There is simply not a single weak beat in the movie and even without the surprise factor, it's a layered and a wickedly entertaining film.
It never ceases to amaze me how the film just casually spends the first half of the movie existing at a level of pure and utter perfection only to spend the second half going above and beyond. Like the fact that I went from "it doesn't get better than this" during the first time to "okay, it did get better than that" will never not be anything other than an unforgettable experience.
I love most of Bong's films, but Parasite really is his magnum opus. Can't wait to see what he does with Robert Pattinson considering he's one of the few non-English speaking directors who's shown capability to deliver greatness in English as well.
2195. Yorum: "ليس كل الفقراء طيبون.. ولا كل الأغنياء أشرار"

طبقية البشر التي يُنظر فيها إلى المستضعفين بنظرة تعاطفية مبنية على مظهرهم الخارجي تتجاهل دائماً باطنهم الخفي والذي لا يعلمه إلا الله..
ربما ستردون عليّ قائلين بأن لنا الظاهر ولله الباطن، وهو أمر أؤمن به وأسير على نهجه منذ زمن طويل، لكن البعض يستغلون ذلك الظاهر المستضعف لكي يتمسكن به أمام الناس بينما في دفين أعماقه فهو يحقد على ظاهر غيره دون أن يراعي خفي صدره..
لهذا أذكركم بمقولة اتقِ شر من أحسنت إليه، فالإنسان بطبعه جاحد حتى ولو لم يمتلك ذرة واحدة من الحقد أو الحسد..

- إنهم أغنياء لكنهم طيبون
- كلا.. إنهم طيبون لأنهم أغنياء

أذكر أثراً قرأته ذات مرة قد ورد عن معاوية بن أبي سفيان رضي الله عنهما لما قال:
"أنا قادر على إرضاء كل نفس الا اثنتين.. الحاسد والحاقد.. لأنه لا يرضيهما إلا زوال نعمتي"
دعونا نتفق على أن الفقر ابتلاء لكنه ليس داء، بل الداء هو جرثومة الحقد التي تنشأ فوق صدور بعض الفقراء نتيجة الران الذي علق وتجمد فوق قلوبهم من تكبر بعض الأغنياء عليهم سواء بنظرة أو كلمة أو حتى مشية فيها خيلاء لا يستطيع رجل ذو هندام مقطوع بأن يمشي مثل هذه المشية أبدا..
جرثومة الفقر التي ترعرعت داخل بعض الأجساد ثم تكاثرت وتحولت إلى طفيليات حتى أصبح المصابون بها طفيل يسير على قدمين بحثاً عن غني يفترسه أو ذا نعمة لكي يزيل عنه نعمته لكي يرضي قلبه المريض


قال لي صديقي ذات مرة : مثلما وُجِدَت عقارات لعلاج أمراض كثيرة.. أرجو من الله أن يوجِد عقاراً لعلاج الفقر.. إبرة في الوريد يسري محلولها داخل جسد ذلك المسكين الذي أصابه الفقر وأنهكه الجوع فيشفى من ذلك البلاء بأمر الله وحده..
فنظرت له قائلاً: إن الفقر لا علاج له يا صديقي.. فلو كان رجلاً لقتله عمر..
2196. Yorum: I would watch this any day
2197. Yorum: 
2198. Yorum: The title, cover, and description lead me to believe it's a horror movie. It is not.
2199. Yorum: this film is studied at universities by scholars experts artists educators scientists etc etc.
2200. Yorum: I was on the fence about Parasite last year when I saw it. Well it's won me over. It kinda has everything doesnt it? It's funny, exciting, and exhilarating in spite of its complexity. I sense it's going to be a regular rewatch.
And I watched it in black and white because Director Bong said so.
2201. Yorum: This might just be the perfect film imo. Not a single moment wasted in this insanely unique story and the way it progresses with the tension rising throughout is just incredible. The soundtrack is perfection and the performances are spectacular man I can't praise it enough. That little montage when they were sabotaging the housekeeper in particular is just *chef's kiss*. I'm so glad this got the recognition it deserves.
Also, it's so hilarious seeing how badly rich people/celebs have managed to misinterpret this film lmao.
2202. Yorum: All Films Watched in 2020, Ranked / 2019 Films, Ranked / Bong Joon-ho, Ranked / 5 Star Films
PARASITE 112820:
"all you'll need to do is walk up the stairs."
also watched the fascinating interview with Bong Joon-ho on the criterion disc.
2203. Yorum: can someone please make the porn bots stop. who even thought letterboxd would be the ideal place to scout desperate porn watchers? or maybe it's the ideal place...
(not tHAT disappointed because i've seen two of them rating parasite five stars)
2204. Yorum: no one gonna talk about how the boy just stole his friends girl😔🤚🏼
2205. Yorum: look, at this point you don't need me to tell you how good this movie is. this is the first time i've watched it since seeing it in cinemas literally moments before this year started to turn to shit for me - even though i only saw it once all those months ago there were visuals and moments and turns of phrase that were indelibly burned into my brain, because it's all so effectively constructed. even when you know what to expect the whole thing is still such a thrill.
2206. Yorum: Last ten minutes almost ruin it for me; I think the epilogue is incredibly useless, and undermines a lot of the film. Even though you can [easily] grab it's thematic intent (a continuous cycle of false hope), it doesn't add anything to this story, and feels clunky, and stupid. This really stands out to me because the rest of the film is aces. This reminds me a lot of The Social Network, in a very specific way; a movie that's pretty much perfect, but I don't ever feel anything more than admiration, and I know I can watch repeatedly. I never feel myself "loving" it, but I also (outside of the ending) can't really fault anything; this is a high level of filmmaking that is so efficient, confident, and thorough, it makes sense to me why this has transcended into being claimed by the canon, and will propel Bong to a higher stage.
My first viewing I had a few very strong opinions, that I don't stand by anymore:
1) I thought the films messages were muddled, and that it might accidentally be undermining itself. Turns out, it was, only in an incredibly intentional way. This was always a film about the impossibility of punching upward, and how the rich stay rich, in their coddled little world of existence, because the poor are fighting the poor for a slightly better spot. It makes me feel questionable only because I don't know much about Bong's personal history. Regardless, I can't fault the film for murky "politics" because it's incredibly thorough, and thought through from frame one.
2) I do standby the ensemble being knockout and worthy of a lot of praise, but I no longer think Song Kang-Ho and Park So-dam are the clear standouts. I nominated both in my personal Oscars at the time, but think they're both gonna come off the ballot. Not that they're bad, but this is so specific to being an ensemble piece, I really don't think you can single anyone out; the energy, and efficiency comes from the group dynamic. With that being said, I didn't think much of Lee Sun-kyun or Cho Yeo-jeong, and think both are actually equally great.
3) This is a very tight film. Direction is in total control, utilizing a gorgeously constructed set, epic cutting, and that fludity that only a certain level of widespread filmmaker can scratch; in my Memories of Murder review I likened it to both Spielberg and Kurosawa, and I think both those are apt comparisons here as well.
4) That tight Direction wouldn't be achievable without a very tight and thought through script, which I think hits full force (the metaphor lines still make me cringe, even if they're hilarious (mostly because they drop the gambit and then run into full fledged metaphor)), outside of it's final moments.
Hard to argue against anyone who claims this to be one of the greatest films of all time; I don't agree, but I also think this is a great film I could easily continue to watch forever. I spent a lot of my last review comparing it to Burning, and I think that was unwise, and unfair, having now recently re-watched both. They are very different movies going for very different things, but something that didn't change was my very strong preference towards Burning... so I guess I was just upset more people haven't seen, and praised, that. But Parasite accomplishes precisely what you hope from blockbusters, or anything that reaches a wide audience; it's entertaining, and gives you a lot to think about.
Good stuff.
2207. Yorum: ...i ended up pressing replay
2208. Yorum: "Jessica, only child, Illinois, Chicago. Classmate Kim Jin-mo, he's your cousin."
I really enjoy this one. Bong is definitely a genius and his talent really shines in this one. Its metaphorical as hell and i really can't get over it. Im glad more people are tuning into this classic film during quarantine and seeing what Bong has to offer in his films. If you haven't checked this one out, you definitely should!
2209. Yorum: My first viewing of this film will not be my last. Not by a long shot.
2210. Yorum: 
2211. Yorum: bong + cast & crew deserve all the praise they've gotten and much more.
i went into this not knowing anything and couldn't be more pleased because i got to be on my toes the whole time.
parasite easily made it to my all-time top 2
2212. Yorum: This film really rocked ahaha
*definitely didn't make this review just to make this pun*
2213. Yorum: Einfach jeder Aspekt dieses Filmes ist außergewöhnlich gut. Das Schauspiel ist hervorragend und der ganze Cast ist sehr überzeugend in ihren Rollen und die Dynamik zwischen den verschiedenen Darstellern ist besonders stark. Parasite ist extrem spannend, mitreißend und oft sogar sehr lustig und kann mit seiner interessanten und originellen Handlung und seinen vielen Überraschungen sehr gut unterhalten. Jedoch ist Parasite noch weitaus mehr als nur unterhaltsam. Das Skript ist nämlich wirklich genial, gesellschaftliche Themen wie Klasse werden hier perfekt angesprochen und kritisiert, auf eine sehr passende und subtile Weise und generell gibt es extrem viel Symbolik, Metaphern und „versteckte“ Kritik, die den Film für mich so besonders macht. Auch Kameraarbeit und der Schnitt sind meisterhaft. Der Film sieht nicht nur fantastisch aus, die Cinematography hat große Bedeutung und trägt zu erwähnten Metaphern usw. stark bei. Überaus gefallen hat mir auch der sehr stimmige Score. Es war wirklich faszinierend zu sehen wieviel „Neues“ ich beim zweiten Mal noch bemerkt und gesehen habe und es war wirklich interessant wie viel ich beim zweiten Mal während dem Schauen über das Gesehene nachgedacht habe und ich freue mich jetzt schon darauf Parasite ein drittes Mal bzw. noch öfter zu sehen.
2214. Yorum: There’s a huge Get Out (2017) texture and overall feel to Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite (2019) to the point where I’m wondering if the South Korean filmmaker’s Oscar winner was influenced in any way by Jordan Peele’s seminal film. Every performance along with the direction and subtext in this movie is so significant to its overall impact, as were said elements in Peele’s Oscar nominated offering, and no doubt will be a wet dream for any film lecturer to dissect it’s existence and purpose in years to come if it hasn’t begun already.
It’s clear why Parasite has been so appealing to English speaking audiences, for a start the dialogue has such a strong Western vibe that from the outset it was instantly relatable. The comedy also has a Western tinge to it that again absorbed me from the get go. But here’s the question, had this movie been made shot by shot as an English speaking production, would it have won Best Picture at the Oscars? Probably not. So why is that? Is it because this picture, along with it’s widely accessible qualities, broke down a barrier that was previously blocked by different cultures with a determination not to appeal to the masses by conceding to the pressure of worldwide acceptance? Will Parasite be regarded as a ‘sell-out’ after all the euphoria has died down? I literally don’t know.
What I do know is that better foreign language films have come before that never won Best Picture, none of them had as strong a plea for acceptance as Parasite. Anyway I digress and in case there is any doubt as to my opinion of this picture, I think it’s an exceptional piece of work and a potential game changer for the film industry as a whole.
2215. Yorum: So many moments that spark goosebumps but on this watch I was left dumbstruck at the shot of Song Kang-ho standing neck-deep in sewer water, holding back tears as he surveys his drowning basement home. So much heart in this film about comical con artists.
2216. Yorum: I finally saw this film few days before it made history at the Oscars. My expectations were obviously sky high given all the praise from critics and audiences, especially letterboxd and film twitter.
I also kinda randomly accidentally double featured this with Knives Out without having any idea how perfect that double feature would be, two wonderfully written, directed and acted films which deal with the exact same themes of class inequality.
Bong has previously done a lot of interesting work, especially Memories of Murder, though I wasn’t the biggest fan of Okja, which made me slightly cautious with my expectations for this one. But honestly there was zero reason for that.
Parasite is a brilliantly executed social commentary which works as a dramedy equally well. It is entertaining, captivating film-making. It has a slightly slow-burn pacing, still it never feels boring for a second because the script is one of the best original screenplays in recent years, and even in the slower dramatic moments this film is endlessly intriguing, delicisiously weird and totally hilarious. And its depictions of wealth and poverty are much more complex and nuanced than in many other films dealing with similar themes. 
I think Bong has previously made socially smart films that have lacked that tiny bit of dramatic sharpness Parasite has. It’s a stunning new peak for him and all the awards and accolades are completely deserved. Also the cast isn’t getting enough praise for this, the whole ensemble is wonderful and it’s very hard to single out anyone.
Between the works of Bong, Park Chan-wook, Kim Ki-duk and others, Korean cinema has delivered multiple masterpieces in the 21st century. I’m delighted that they are finally getting some real worldwide recognition. Maybe it’s time to normalize watching films with subtitles and accept the fact there are great films being made all over the world. I’m all for people acknowledging that. 
So, seeing Knives Out literally thirty minutes after made it a little harder to bite on this one straight away, but it was a great evening nevertheless.
2217. Yorum: When I first saw it, I knew it was something truly special. Their wins were historic and Bong Joon-ho is an inspiration to many aspiring filmmakers out there. Truly deserved.
2218. Yorum: I showed this to some friends who haven’t seen it and watching their reactions to it intensified the experience and my love for this movie. I noticed things I didn’t originally pick up on. Since a lot of us study how communication is used to display our view of the world, others and ourselves, we were able to unpack even more about this movie. Yeah, I ducking love this movie and it just became tied with knives out as my favorite movie from 2019. That ending still hits me. 😩💚
2219. Yorum: The hype train was strong with this one! It did not affect my viewing though. An excellent thriller that keeps you enthralled through out. I was expecting a little more insanity, but things still got pretty crazy. Not sure why, I was craving a bit more zaniness from this flick and I didn’t get it. That’s not the films fault though. 
This would make a sweet double feature with Knives Out. They kind of give me similar vibes and similar themes seems to be at play here. 
4 peach dusts out of 5
2220. Yorum: Kim Dong-ik after Park Ki-taek gives him the fake business card: “Look at that subtle off-white coloring. The tasteful thickness of it. Oh my God, it even has a watermark.”
2221. Yorum: Second viewing and it still kicks ass. A masterpiece.
Absolutely recommend.
2222. Yorum: I have seen this 4 times now, and I still notice more subtle details, more elements in the production design, more foreshadowing, more nuances in the performances and the script... Parasite is a masterpiece, nigh perfect, immensely entertaining and meticulously crafted. This is my lock for Best Picture this year, and the kind of film that will open audiences to a new kind of cinema and will inspire directors for decades to come.
The Curzon Q&A broadcasted after the screening was fun and nice, shame they stopped it because they had other screenings planned in cinemas. Gonna try and go to more of these events in the future!
2223. Yorum: 
2224. Yorum: i can excuse scamming rich people but i draw the line at eating pineapple pizza
2225. Yorum: if this doesn’t win best picture we’re eating the rich
2226. Yorum: As I ventured into this film, I hadn’t known anything related to the story or genre for that matter. It turns out, Parasite is a wholly original concept that’s equally hysterical & haunting. The movie is a wildly enjoyable ride that brilliantly interweaves between crafty humor & dangerous suspense. There’s a sense of realism among the characters revolving the depiction of superior upper class & desperate lower class citizens. The interactions between the two groups ultimately builds a frightening & surreal tension toward its climax. South Korean Director/Co-Writer Boon Joon Ho, “The Host”, “Snowpiercer”, “a lock for the best international film & possibly directing Oscar 2019”, once again impresses as he tops himself with a twisted & surprising picture, one that will stick with you long after it’s over.
2227. Yorum: I'm going to be very upset when this film doesn't win Best Picture at the Oscars.
*Edit* Nevermind. LETSFUCKINGGO🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷🇰🇷
2228. Yorum: Can’t believe I waited this long to see a masterpiece. Thank god for Korean filmmakers, actors, actresses, etc for always bringing unique family stories to life. The entire family dynamics in this film is brilliant, every single line that was delivered was convincing and conniving and yet somehow familiar to the depth of what human beings do to survive. 
American cinema needs to take some hardcore notes on this one!
2229. Yorum: watching this for a third time in theaters really indulged the part of me that loves finding how seemingly insignificant details become major setups later in this movie. squirting hot sauce on pizza foretells the tuberculosis trick. polite small talk about cub scouts during ki-woo's job interview ties the ending sequence of the film together. an initial joke about how members of the kim family all smell the same becomes a concise summation of ki-taek's entire motivational and emotional arc. every shot and line of dialogue has metaphorical intention. not a second feels wasted. i don't think i've seen another film so careful and meticulous in its writing and direction, nor a film with such a perfectly orchestrated rhythm.
can't wait to graduate from college so i'll have enough time to write a paper tracking the various uses of and meanings behind the wealth rock.


(and please delete that jimmy fallon interview with bong joon-ho off the internet, it physically hurts me every time i remember it exists.)
2230. Yorum: Kinda missing a WOW factor for me that I think would've added a lot, but still this is fantastic. The direction and filmmaking is incredible and engrossing. The ideas at play are both very subtle and very on the nose at the same time (and I mean that in a very positive way)
Not blown away by this, but the craft behind it is so good, this movie deserves at least one viewing from everyone
2231. Yorum: so that’s what the definition of truly being speechless is?
2232. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all.”
Very few films (especially foreign) get the kind of acclaim and attention this one received. Even less films live up to that praise. Parasite does. It meets the highest of expectations and then more. I went into it blindly, as many people recommended, and it was probably the best decision I could’ve made. I had no idea what to expect and yet, every second of it was fantastic.
This is my second film by Bong Joon-Ho (first being Okja), so I don’t have much knowledge about his work, but one thing felt familiar based on the one and only film of his I’ve seen: he flawlessly plays a fine line between genres. Constantly changing the atmosphere of the film, making it feel fresh and unique even after a while.
With incredible writing, Parasite tells the story of two families. On the one hand we have the Parks, a rich family that gets anything they please, and on the opposite side of the spectrum we have the Kim family, going through a poverty crisis and willing to do anything to survive. The film takes the two families on a very exhilarating journey and gives a social commentary on class differences, how fate might be the deciding factor on whether you have an easy life, or you simply don’t. With exciting scenes of violence, drama, and even some comedy, the film is absolutely fantastic and deserves all the praise. Incredibly well directed, with beautiful cinematography, near perfect pacing, great performances, score and a more than impressive set design (!), Parasite is undoubtedly one of the best films of the decade. 
Couldn’t have celebrated my birthday in a better way and I’m glad I made the effort to go see it. I can confidently say the 40+ minute drive was absolutely worth it.
2233. Yorum: me: :(
parasite: ⛰🍑🔪
me: :)
2234. Yorum: 🍕✌🍑🏡
2235. Yorum: I never saw any advertisements for this film, but everyone I talked to was just raving on and on about how great it was. I heard it was one of the films of the year and some even called it a masterpiece. Every critic, Youtuber, and moviegoer alike were praising this film. I was ready for something special here. 
The film follows a low income family struggling in life who’s son starts tutoring a rich family’s daughter. After this the rest of family members start to infiltrate the rich family’s life and start scamming them with lies about who they are. 
I have not seen director Bong Joon- ho’s other films but after this one I think I might have to because it is a beautiful and smart film with great direction. The film’s music choices were very good and well chosen for each particular scene and was used appropriately every time. The cinematography especially that of the city was very beautiful to look at and the settings were very nice to go through. This is a film that knew how to tell a story through visuals. When the characters aren’t talking, visuals take over a lot of the time. There’s a scene where a giant rainstorm hits the city and we just have these incredible images playing out in addition to the breathtaking cinematography. It’s little details like how both families perceive a rainstorm that makes the film tight. The rich family sees it as something beautiful while the poor family is determined it’s the end because they’re panicking to stop their house from flooding. This family literally lives lower because they live almost underground in the city. A lot of movies will portray less fortunate families as not so intelligent but in this film this poor family is really smart and it’s their intelligence that helps them get work and fool the rich family. They have to use their wits to do anything to get money and help their financial situation. The rich family isn’t the brightest family in the world either but just the way the poor family’s plan unfolded so masterfully at first was just intriguing and also pretty funny. This film is really funny a lot of the time. Its humor is smart and creative and just overall well written. If it wasn’t well written it obviously wouldn’t work, but this comedy was very well put together in a way that helped it stand out. The characters were all very well written and well developed. I could feel the struggle and the desperation from this poor family trying to just survive. The rich family aren’t complete idiots and they’re also not villains either. It’s mainly the poor family’s jealousy and want of their rich lifestyle and wishing they were in that position instead of them. Nobody is really the true bad guy here and it’s just life which makes the film feel more real. The film starts out pretty funny at first, but then the tone shifts from funny to serious pretty fast and it is a very well done tone shift because it shows how everything can just come crashing down at once just how life does. The film has visuals connecting the story with connective tissue with small details and if you pay attention you can see a story being told. The images used are so subtle you might not notice but it’s really ambitious in this way. It’s also ambitious purely by how well the different genres are blended together in this film. Also like other great films, this film is very ambiguous for not directly telling you what everyone is feeling. You have to look at everyone’s facial expression in order to know what they are saying or feeling and I loved that for the reason that it makes you connect with the characters even more. It’s wonderfully acted in that sense too. I might not recognize many of the actors but everyone in this film played their part to perfection and I had no trouble connecting to anyone because everyone was so well written. This film really understood how to make everything feel natural and it really shined from comedy to drama. Nobody was underused and everyone was given the spotlight. This film got a lot of laughs from me and it also made me think. This really made the experience better because not many movies like this one come around too often. My only complaint personally was that I didn’t like the romance between the poor son and the rich daughter. I thought that was kind of forced in there, but it still wasn’t bad. I never felt the runtime like my colleague did because I was having a good time and I was so sucked in by the story. It was a very well paced movie in my eyes that never dragged. 
Conclusion: This is definitely one of the best foreign films you’ll see. It’s a very ambitious movie that blends everything together brilliantly and is just beautiful to look at. I might not be head over heels for it like everyone else and I thing masterpiece might be a bit of a stretch. However this is still a really good film that’s worth your attention and time. I see award winning down the road for this one. Go see it if you can. 
LE
2236. Yorum: 
2237. Yorum: I wish this had more satirical bite than "rich people are annoying, it sucks being poor." But Bong can direct the hell out of a suspense scene, and Parasite does deliver some unexpected jolts. Still, the class war theme has about as much depth as a populist Spielberg thrill ride.
2238. Yorum: This is the only film in the history of my entire life that has made my jaw literally drop open.....
‘Nuff said.
2239. Yorum: AHHHHHH (DATS ME YELLIN)!!!!!!!
I’m SO glad I went into this knowing next to nothing about it......I had no idea what to expect, so every moment kept me on the edge of my seat, waiting to see what might unfold next. turns out every moment was SO FUCKING GOOD!! every single element was fantastic and right up my alley and checked every single box for me and overall I am just really fucking impressed!! stunned! blown away! gobsmacked! hook line and sinker! what! I’m mixing metaphors here but who gives a fuck! REALLY FUCKING LOVED THIS!
2240. Yorum: dude... duuuuuude. Dude.
dude.
d u d e
D u D e
DUDE
Dude!
edud
dude.
holy shit.
2241. Yorum: no words just academy award
2242. Yorum: Yep. You guys were right. I believe in cinema.
2243. Yorum: One of the few movies to explicitly recall Hitchcock and pretty much earn it. Masterful from tip to tail..... respect the grift !!
2244. Yorum: really good! think it was funnier than i had initially expected and the pacing is magnificent. can go a bit too zany or overdramatic directions at times but i think i like the campy atmosphere it holds. looks like the hype was justified for once
2245. Yorum: What’s wrong with me?
2246. Yorum: Believe the hype. It's fucking fantastic.
Took him 10 years but ya boy makes a welcome return to his Korean roots with a film that sits perfectly alongside Mother, The Host & Memories of Murder. Another biting, edge-of-your-seat thriller that's far too clever for its own good and far too entertaining to write off as an arthouse flick for wannabe cinephiles.
Nostalgia aside, this might actually be my fave of his, and considering how much I love his older work that's saying a lot. Fuck me up Bong Joon Ho.
Never make an American film again.
2247. Yorum: Contrapoints - Opulence 
2248. Yorum: Love sixth time watches for the first time
2249. Yorum: 
2250. Yorum: Just rewatched this with my parents (probably their first Korean film ever I believe) and it made me extremely happy to see them laugh, tremble on the edge of their seat and ultimately succumb to Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece. I know they will be talking about it for days, asking me, because "this is so metaphorical"!!!!
Parasite is literally what its title claims: a cinematic parasite that will infect you with its social commentary. You might even smell yourself once the credits start rolling, what is my smell? And my parents? And yours? Hardly ever a film has had such a tremendous sociological impact for those who have seen it.
Parasite needs to be the film for the rest of the world to discover South Korean masterful cinema
2251. Yorum: what kind of plan never fails?
Takes a little to get used to its flow, but once it kicks into high gear (during *THAT* scene), it never stops being enthralling. However, for as enthralling it is, it's also severely overrated. Parasite is not a masterpiece, and it is clearly not one of the best of the decade. I have no question that Bong Joon Ho is a master of his craft; he simultaneously weaves several genres, which is what makes Parasite such a compelling watch. Is it a comedy? Because it sure is funny. Is it a thriller? Because it sure is nail-biting. Or is it a tragedy? Because it sure is depressing. But on the flip side, it's extraordinarily sluggish during the beginning and takes around a solid hour to settle into it's pacing. And the acclaimed social commentary that Bong has intertwined in is never really profound till the final act. The analysis of social class is there throughout, but until Bong Joon Ho makes his point clear during the last fifteen minutes, then everything goes over the head. Though, a simple rewatch could change that.
I can nitpick and talk about how my personal film preferences don't match well with Parasite at times, but there's no denying the brilliance behind it or, more importantly, Bong Joon Ho. Because whatever Parasite is, it's pretty damn good.
2252. Yorum: I could easily see myself giving this at least 4.5 stars, but I'm going to hold off until I rewatch it, the last 15 mins lost me a bit.
Bong's film is incredibly executed. The set design, the music, and the casting are all perfect. The cinematography is gorgeous and it never upends the movie, it always feels like it's there to serve the story.
My biggest gripe is the last 20 mins, just because I felt it to be a bit tonally uneven. Don't get me wrong, it all works, but it felt a bit jarring at times, maybe purposefully so.
I can't say enough about the cast. Truly one of the best ensembles I've seen all year. Their ability to adapt to the tonal shifts was incredible, and they made the script work.
Go see Parasite. It's an incredible piece of filmmaking and an experience worth having in theaters.

Edit: made it 4.5 stars
2253. Yorum: western cinema should just give up and go home, south korea has what they want! that’s it everyone! nothing left to see!!
2254. Yorum: I went into this ice cold and left fuelled with a fire almost unbearable. Parasite is truly that bitch.
2255. Yorum: "If you make a plan, life never works out that way".
"We all got too fucking worked up last night" is the new name of this movie.
What to say? Brilliant, enigmatic, beautifully shot, loved the music.
Those plot twist, just wow. Never saw that coming.
Amazing. Some parts of Oldboy and Us crossed my mind. And of course Shoplifters.
When I saw the trailer I declared this my favorite movie of the year. Damn, I was right!!
2256. Yorum: This movie has everything you expect from a Bong Joon-Ho film. The climax is pretty crazy but also beautiful in a way. Growing up poor I did relate to the characters some even if I didn't agree with what they were doing. Is it the best movie ever? Nah but it's a solid film.
2257. Yorum: A top film for 2019.
Bong Joon-ho's latest work is that of a filmmaker at the top of his game and at the zenith of the profession.
What seems like a dark comedy only darkens further into a mystery thriller where the viewer won't know what's next. Themes of survival, willpower, deception, determination, and desperation compels one to think about the underlying message here.
The social commentary of this film is ever-present: The ways the wealthy think of the underprivileged and vice versa. All is connected.
It's stressful, humorous, slightly off-beat, clever, thrilling; it shows pristine eye for memorable shots with framing, movement and plenty of color. Parasite is quite the experience.
2258. Yorum: i truly feel speechless & i am having trouble composing my thoughts. much of the movie felt a little too slow, but the parts that don’t feel slow fly by & make this film the 5 star film it is. even after the first 30 minutes it’s difficult to predict where the plot is going, but the pieces fit perfectly after a while. i have some unanswered questions but honestly in a film like this, they don’t seem to matter. the performances, cinematography, & script have got to be some of the best of the year & should be praised. i might be able to go more into depth later but i am blanking on my thoughts on, Parasite.
2259. Yorum: Sort of iconic that my favorite two films from the past two years are Shoplifters and Fucked Up Shoplifters.
2260. Yorum: É maravilhoso como Bong Joon-ho transforma tragicomédias em intensas alegorias políticas sobre o lugar da Coréia do Sul no mundo hoje, nada melhor do que conhecer o país através de seu cinema, o curioso é que o Kleber Mendonça tem a mesma função de alegoria política aqui no Brasil e também teve em Bacurau um dos melhores de Cannes, o que representou uma forte tendência a exaltar a alegoria política no festival desse ano.
HDRip NonDRM.
2261. Yorum: Bong has yet to ever disappoint me, consistently one-upping his filmography with heavily philosophical and political scopes and virtues. It will be utterly astonishing if he can accomplish something of equal caliber (OR BETTER) in the future. There is a manner in which he manifests his eccentric and harshly realistic understandings and perspectives of societal and class structures that are both immensely funny and a gut-punch of self-awareness in the cyclical spectrum of humanism. Parasite starts off with a bang and ends with a bloody knife in your face, forcing you to confront yourself in the vast myriad of our humanistic morals juxtaposed with those already set in place for you. It may be a losing battle, but it’s always worth the fight to the death.
2262. Yorum: 
2263. Yorum: 82/100
Bong Joon-ho take a fucking bow. Combining a pitch-black comedy with a ferocious observation of class-conflict present among life within late capitalism, building up to a rapturous allegory of revolution against the bourgeoise, all of it neatly stacked into a script pulsing with the tension that's characteristic of the finest thrillers. The man has outdone himself. Eccentric, poignant, unexpectedly hilarious and absolutely delightfully insane.
2264. Yorum: no words...
just an incredibly intelligent, well-crafted, beautifully shot and directed film. a masterpiece!!!
bong joon-ho really DID THAT
2265. Yorum: Bong, darling, honey you making all of those  european film makers look bad. 
#bonghive 4 life
2266. Yorum: I have enjoyed Bong Joon-ho's films over the years, particularly The Host (2006) and Mother (2009), without being wildly enthusiastic about his filmmaking. However, Parasite far eclipses anything else he has done and I am now firmly in fanboy mode.
Comedy horror is one of the hardest genres to pull off, particularly over a 2 hour 12 minute run time (and a really vile Hoyts afternoon matinee student audience), but Bong nails it here.
The less you know about the story going in the better. All I will say is that it rolls out what happens when three families - the rich upper class family headed by Mr Park, the working class grifters headed by Ki-taek, and the Park's housekeeper, Moon-gwang - bump up against each other and interact.
The first half of the film is very laugh out loud funny as Bong sets up his scenario and establishes his characters. However, about halfway through he pulls off a jaw dropping pivot (with a plot point that is so ubiquitous it is almost trite) and heads into much darker territory which then gallops full tilt into a breathtaking conclusion.
There is way too much going on here to take in in one viewing but a few key things stood out for me.
Geography is very important. Money or the lack of it and social status and the lack of it are reflected in the physical geography of the film. The Parks live in a modern house straight out of the pages of Architectural Digest - modern interior design, expensive understated furniture, walls of plate glass looking out to an ultra green lawn and carefully topiaried trees. Think Valhalla. Ki-taek and his family live in a crowded slum, think The Lower Depths. And this stratification is not just visual. Mr and Mrs Park, and in particular their overindulged preteen son Da-song, are convinced that poverty has a smell and they can detect it on Ki-taek and his family.
There is one remarkable scene where Ki-taek and his family are running home from the Parks' house at night in a torrential downpour. Water is rushing down the streets which all slope downwards and they have to negotiate several long flights of stairs, going deeper and deeper until they get to their street. Within minutes, the drainage fails and they are soon literally neck deep in shit as the sewers start bubbling up out of their toilet bowl.
Yet, in line with the surface/reality dichotomy that underpins much of Bong's satire here, even Valhalla comes in layers. Similarly, working out who are the parasites of the title is not at all straightforward. Everyone is exploiting someone else in a totally codependent fashion.
Bong's ensemble cast is uniformly excellent. Although each person is an archetype, in some cases verging on stereotype, the superb screenplay by Bong and Han Jin-wong gives each character enough personality for them to operate at a dual level. Bong is not by any means a master puppeteer pulling the strings to make his points; these are believable characters and we get to care about them.
This is exciting cinema and it is a long time since I have enjoyed being taken for a ride this much. Like the best of his earlier films, this one will repay multiple viewings.
2267. Yorum: There are two kinds of five-star movies in my book: 1) the ones that I can rewatch for the rest of my life, and 2) the ones that are not only masterpieces, but they also spark my curiosity to study them and make me love cinema even more. PARASITE belongs to the latter category.
2268. Yorum: Grew off me a bit but still incredible and one of my favorite thrillers
2269. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho showcases a lot of complex layers that combine to make one memorable, intense experience. This movie is extremely funny one minute and then the most depressing movie ever the next. At times it's over the top. There are a few crazy, unpredicable moments that will make your jaw drop.
The five-star cast brought this movie to life for me. The actor playing Park Da-Song is a natural and one of the best child actors I've seen in years.
This movie will make you laugh, cry and say "What the hell is going on?" over and over again. It will hold your interest until the end and leave you thinking about it long afterwards.
2270. Yorum: When your circle is small but yall crazy 🤪
2271. Yorum: Voilà pourquoi c'est mieux de faire appel à Stéphane Plaza quand on veut acquérir un nouveau bien immobilier
2272. Yorum: Lost count of how many times I had rewatched this film but I don't really plan to stop. 
Parasite still feels like a timeless classic & in every subsequent viewing I feel more & more confident in my understanding & enjoyment of the journey down to its basement. Inside said basement holds a brilliant script with some of the most fascinatingly layered commentary ever written, dangerously sharp editing that left me absolutely stunned alongside its relationship to the nailbiting score, an incredible cast that heightened the comedy & presence of the unforgettable characters, & the mind-blowing set designs where every square inch makes me feel as if I walked through its neighborhood a thousand times. 
I have plenty of nitpicks but I can't help falling in love with a film that effortlessly places me in the mind of a cockroach that has memorized every chip & bump on the walls of the house that it is secretly living in.
2273. Yorum: A reviravolta do enredo 🤯
Deve ser um dos melhores filmes que eu já assisti; a atuação é incrível e a cinematografia é maravilhosa, o significado por trás do filme é ótimo. muitos símbolos como “o cheiro dos pobres” te fazem refletir sobre a sociedade, e o quão real é essa desigualdade.
2274. Yorum: Parasite, the best movie of all time according to the Letterboxd. But what actually is it? I believe that it’s just an overrated piece of shit with plastic characters and stereotyped images of poor and rich people, weak script and nonsence in the end. I don’t understand what should people feel after watching this movie, why should someone empathise main characters or that family from basement? Why should I hate Pack and his family, who are portrayed as ignorant terrible people just because they're living better than others? I have too many questions to this movie and not in the good way.
Btw, I love this "fresh" ideas about class distinction as if we never knew that someone living better than others. Thank you Bong, thank you for that great piece of cinema and your next hit. I still can't understand why this movie got an Oscar 'cos this is just nothing, nothing new and nothing interesting.
All in all, I just can’t understand why the hell people love this so much. I mean, first part of the film felt like an average unremarkable comedy, but second “serious dramatic” part is just awful early-soviet level of propaganda that is flat and uninteresting.
2275. Yorum: 
2276. Yorum: This was the greatest thing i have ever watched but my house was broken into by a guy wearing an among us costume while i was watching this and was acting kinda sus.
2277. Yorum: I noticed quite a bit on this rewatch. 
I had read and watched video essays about this, but there is such a prominence of characters “crossing the line” in how they are framed in shots, as well as literal barriers they cross. 
The connection between Ki-taek and Geun-sae and their desire to start Taiwanese cake shops and their similar backgrounds, but the whole Kim family looking down on Geun-sae and Moon-gwang is such an interesting way to show their slight difference in class and why the Kims are able to feel such distance from them. And this also speaks to the level of Korean cultural references to class that just don’t translate well if this were ever remade in English.
So much is happening in the backgrounds! Every main character in the background is always doing something of importance, no one stands around and just stares.
I have seen this before and discussed it with others, but on this rewatch, I truly believe Yeon-gyo’s feelings for her husband are not love and when he is killed, there is no shock, just relief. This is a callback to earlier in the film and the discussion between Ki-taek and Dong-ik and whether or not Dong-ik loves his wife. There was a lot of hesistancy before he said no.
The final scene is truly class warfare between two people who are truly struggling and their lack of attention to how people like the Parks further their class hardships. It is so important for Ki-taek to deliver that final stab because it shows that that cycle can be temporarily disrupted, but people often get trapped back in this cycle. There is a really tremendous instance of this when the Kims are discussing whether or not the former driver of the Parks were currently employed. Their success came at the cost of others who were also in need, but the Parks have such abundance. 
People also believe that the failure of the Kims is sudden and by chance, but all throughout their plan, there were always tiny cracks. Whether it was their shared smell or the growing narrative crafted of convenience that would possibly unravel itself with time. 
Ki-woo also falls to the hope that he too will escape the sub-basement one day, with the added motivation of reaching his father, but as the audience, we know that is a goal he will likely never attain. 
That is the tragedy of Parasite.
2278. Yorum: I remember leaving the theater and my dad simply said:
That’s how gullible rich people are.
2279. Yorum: Halos better
2280. Yorum: Sono andato al cinema a controllare se "È così metaforico, così potente!" anche dopo la terza volta. Si, lo è.
Innanzitutto, la sala era gremita e, ascoltando di sfuggita pareri a caldo e interpretando le espressioni facciali, mi pare di aver capito che sia piaciuto da morire alla stragrande maggioranza dei presenti. Quantomeno posso dirlo con certezza delle persone che erano con me. Per molti di loro era la prima volta che vedevano un film coreano (ma forse posso dire addirittura asiatico), e questo mi rende felice;
La vittoria roboante agli Oscar ha allargato così tanto il bacino di utenza che sui social si sta un po' (pochissimo) smorzando il consenso unanime e, di tanto in tanto, in mezzo a opinioni ben argomentate di chi non lo ha amato, sbuca fuori il commento di chi se la sente abbastanza calda da smontare la complessità di un film del genere con un'unica frase lapidaria, o peggio di chi si profonde in lunghe disamine sui "buchi di sceneggiatura".
Per carità, si sopravvive tranquillamente senza che Parasite piaccia per forza a tutti, ci mancherebbe. Però a me sta storia dei "buchi di sceneggiatura" non va giù per due motivi:
1) l'unica didascalia che mette Bong Joon-Ho è il fatto che tutto sia "così metaforico". Lo ripete almeno 4 volte e non a caso: vi sta suggerendo che dovreste lasciarvi abbandonare al ritmo del racconto senza stare lì a pesare ogni passaggio della trama, senza sottolineare con la penna rossa ogni cosa che ai fini della finzione cinematografica e della visione artistica viene omessa o semplificata.
Se non ci riuscite ho una brutta notizia: la state vivendo malissimo; avete pagato 8 € per svolgere un'attività che ha poco a che fare con il gustarsi un film e molte affinità con un'ispezione delle ASL. Ed è altrettanto avvincente;
2) Per ciò che mi ha offerto la mia bolla social, le lunghe disamine sui buchi di sceneggiatura conducono quasi sempre verso conclusioni che più vedo il film e più mi sembrano poco puntuali. Ed essendo ormai arrivato alla terza visione nel giro di quattro mesi scarsi, credo di essermi fatto un'idea.
Vedo tanta confusione sull'interpretazione della lotta di classe rappresentata nel film, sul bersaglio della critica di Bong e su chi sia il parassita e chi il corpo ospite. Ma, più in generale, vedo anche molta confusione nella scala di valori di chi guarda il film.
L'aspetto più criticato di Parasite è la rappresentazione dei ricchi: troppo luminosa e patinata, troppo superficiale e ingiustamente crudele nei loro confronti. I Park sono fortunati, tanto imbecilli quanto stronzi e, in fondo, "si meritano quel che gli succede".
Voglio archiviare subito quest'ultima considerazione: se mentre il signor Kim conficca il coltello nel petto del signor Park vi scoprite a fare si con la testa, significa che la vostra bussola morale non punta più a nord.
Detto questo, più vedo Parasite e più mi sembra che l'apparente superficialità dei ricchi sia voluta, ma non per metterli in cattiva luce e, di riflesso, giustificare l'esplosione di violenza.
I Park hanno uno stile di vita che solo un ragazzo che ha battuto forte la testa può sognare di conquistare. Sono semplicemente irraggiungibili, impermeabili, imperscrutabili: non sappiamo cosa pensano, non sappiamo cosa facciano al di fuori delle interazioni con i Kim, non sappiamo di preciso che lavoro faccia il signor Park (i titoli degli articoli di giornale che lo riguardano sono ultra generici e Bong si sofferma solo su quelli). Quando il signor Kim prova a entrare nell'intimità del rapporto tra il signor Park e sua moglie, viene bloccato (per due volte, in macchina e nel giardino, quando si stanno vestendo da indiani) e invitato a non superare il limite. L'unico momento di intimità tra i due è rubato da tre tizi nascosti sotto il tavolo del soggiorno.
Sono belli come il sole, raggianti, attraenti.
Raggirabili?
Boh.
Cioè se ti fa piacere, pensalo pure. Però a me sembra che a loro semplicemente non freghi nulla di chi lava i piatti, cucina, guida la macchina o viene delegato a istruire ed educare i propri figli. Se vuoi chiamarlo "raggiro" per sentirti più furbo fai pure, ma la verità è che i Park sono talmente ricchi sfondati da fregarsene dell'avatar di chi gli si affanna intorno per soddisfare le loro richieste. Ai Park non interessa conoscere la complessità dietro le luci a fotocellula, non gli interessa come funziona, basta che funzioni. Se avessero scoperto la presenza di Geun-Sae nel sottoscala, probabilmente avrebbero fatto spallucce, gli avrebbero dato uno stipendio e gli avrebbero detto "Bravo, continua così. Magari tagliate sti capelli e lascia perdere i messaggi in alfabeto morse".
È il denaro il mezzo con cui interagiscono e, contemporaneamente, tengono a distanza di sicurezza ciò che sta al di fuori del loro ecosistema, ed è anche questo che li assolve: sto salvando te e la tua famiglia da un'esistenza miserabile, posso permettermi di dire che la puzza di povero proprio non ti si leva di dosso o mi merito una coltellata in petto per aver sparlato di qualcuno a letto con mia moglie, ovvero per aver fatto quello che TUTTI fanno in intimità?
Ma poi tu in quell'intimità, ci sei entrato per sbaglio, no? Come ti sei permesso?
Il titolo del film è ingannevole: non c'è un vero parassita in Parasite. Il rapporto è simbiotico.
Ma se c'è qualcuno contro cui Bong punta il dito, a questo punto sono sicuro che sono i Kim e non i Park. In Snowpiercer, uscito nel 2013, i "poveri" compivano un'impresa straordinaria perché uniti, compatti e disposti a grandi sacrifici individuali per un bene collettivo superiore.
Sei anni dopo, Bong probabilmente non rifarebbe lo stesso film: i suoi "poveri" oggi sono incapaci di raggiungere un accordo, non aiutano il vicino che sta tirando fuori la bicicletta dalla casa allagata, non raggiungono un compromesso che farebbe comodo a tutti. Non è vera lotta di classe se i "poveri" non sono capaci di fare fronte comune; sono solo sporadiche e isolate battaglie di individui egoisti contro un estabilishment che invece è compattissimo.
I ricchi sono tutti belli, tutti sorridenti e organizzano feste in 10 minuti. I poveri non riescono mai a dimostrare solidarietà verso chi si trova in condizioni uguali o peggiori (Jessica dice a chiare lettere "Non preoccuparti degli altri poveri, preoccupati di noi")
D'altro canto, un'altra cosa che non c'è in Parasite sono i buoni e i cattivi. Bong è bravissimo a giocare con i punti di vista per spiegare (e non necessariamente giustificare) con grande tatto e umanità la disperazione: quella che per i Park è stata una pioggia che ha purificato l'aria, ai Kim è costata la casa. La signora Park non se ne accorge, perché le siepi che circondano la sua magione la isolano dal resto di Seul, però al signor Kim la cosa fa girare i coglioni. Tanto più se è l'anello debole della "catena di raccomandazioni", e Bong è cristallino nel metterlo in chiaro.
Il signor Kim è il più sollecitato dallo stress, perché è un padre di famiglia senza un piano; lui fallisce sempre, a prescindere da quanto impegno ci metta e da quanto sia facile il lavoro: fallisce anche quando piega indefesso i cartoni della pizza mentre gli altri soffocano per l'aria satura di insetticida.
La prossima volta che vedrete Parasite, cercate di fare caso alla faccia che fa quando all'inizio del film la ragazza della pizzeria dice che un quarto dei cartoni di pizza che hanno piegato è non conforme: è esattamente la stessa che fa quando nascosto sotto il tavolo viene a sapere che il signor Park lo considera maleodorante.
Il signor Kim è il più emotivamente instabile, è quello che recita peggio, quello che non sa stare al suo posto e quello che lavora peggio degli altri. E quindi è quello che alla fine sbrocca. Matematico.
Anche Geun-Sae, il parassita del sottoscala, che dopo la prima visione mi sembrava solo un freak, in realtà è una figura tragica, in ultima istanza vittima del più umano e più futile dei sentimenti, la vendetta. È straziante vederlo chiedere aiuto in morse con la testa insanguinata mentre sua moglie sta morendo. Straziante.
Perdonate il wall of text, ci sentiamo alla quarta visione.
2281. Yorum: Even after months of hype, two full viewings, tons of talk online, so many other amazing reviews from people on here and from professional critics, even after all of that, I still find new ways to love this movie. I've already written 2 huge reviews of this movie, so here's just some sporadic thoughts and observations I wanted to point out:
• I love the shot of Ki-Jung, Ki-woo and Choong-sook surrounding the pizza woman, the camera is ever so slightly pushing in as the family begins to overtake the frame trying to persuade her to give them work.
• I knew that the basement and the Park's house was a set, but I had no idea that parts of those sets were filled in with CGI like that street only went so far and the top of the Park house was also CG. It's insanely seamless.
• I love that idea of niceness being a privilege and the Kims get to act out that niceness with the family. I love how you almost forget what they're actually like and when we go to a scene where they don't have to keep up the act it's a jarring shift.
• Shout out to editor Yang Jin-mo, who just totally kills it here. This movie is so tightly weaved together both in the bigger picture of how tight the story moves and how essential each scene is, but how each sequence is cut together is astounding tight. He for sure should've won the Oscar (although not to discredit Ford V Ferrari, this was just better)
• The fucking THUD Moon-Gwang takes when she hits her head doesn't seem totally realistic, but it sells how brutal and how important that moment is.
• Park So-dam, hot. Choi Woo-shik, hot. Lee Sun Gyun, hot. Cho Yeo-jeong, hot. People in this movie are hot.
• Where the hell is Song Kang-ho's Oscar? That man kills it in his movie. The scene in the gym, amazing. You get so much expression and nuance into what he's thinking even when he doesn't even say a god damn word. And he's also been in so many other great films, that man is long overdue and hopefully he gets another chance to earn an Oscar.
• The way the flood scene ends with the camera dipping underwater and that's used as a wipe to the next shot, brilliant.
• It is a story about the rich and the poor, but it not even just such a two sided thing, there's the rich, poor and the poorer. Living in the basement of the Park house just completely consumes you in that poverty, and it's interesting how Ki-taek and Geun-sae end up worshiping Mr Park as this god like figure, because they're completely dependant on them and they're powerless, whereas the Kims, while they still take advantage of them, they still have power and control in that situation.
• Bong points out when talking about this HBO limited series that's happening that he wants to explore more stories in this world, like how when Moon-Gwang comes back to the house, she has bruises on her face, which I didn't even fully pick up on initially.
• As a side note about that series, I'm cautiously optimistic about it. If Bong gets enough creative control over it, it could be an interesting companion piece and not just another american remake of a foreign-language film, that seems like a thing that's going to become all too common. I think I'll always prefer the movie, but it'll be interesting to see how it turns out. I feel like Parasite would lend itself quite nicely to like a 4 episode series, there's pretty clear points where episodes could end pretty cleanly. I dislike that it means that while yes, a lot of people who wouldn't normally watch a South Korean movie will watch Parasite, once the series comes out, I feel like it'll take away from that. 
Since this review is so scattershot, here's a very quick wishlist of who I want cast in this show:
For the Kims, I'll say Sandler for Ki-taek (I think he's got it in him, although it'll probably end up being Mark Ruffallo who's cast), Toni Collette as the mother, Florence Pugh to play Jessica, only child, Illinois Chicago, and Barry Keoghan to play the son.
And for the Parks, Chris Evans to play the dad (which I legit so convinced is going to happen, watch me be right on this), Brie Larson as the mother, Thomasin Mackenzie for the daughter and... idk who to play the kid, just a good child actor.
And Willem Dafoe playing the basement dweller.
Anyways, yeah, Parasite is good. It is very good. As it stands, it's my second favourite film of all time, and I am very close to claiming it to be my new favourite. I have to sit on that for a while though, I'll wait till the buzz of Parasite to die down and see if I truly feel it's my favourite movie ever or if I'm being swept up in the hype to some extent. Either way, whether I decide to put it above the almighty La La Land, I am just so happy this movie got its recognition. It's so completely gratifying to see a foreign film awarded so highly in the Western movie-sphere, with this and Roma, I totally feel that the world of movies is opening up more and more. I don't think we'll get to a point where subtitled movies are doing blockbuster level box office numbers, but I feel like there's so much more of an opening of the gates to give these movies and these filmmakers across the world a chance.
And as happy I am that the movie I wanted to win actually won for once, I'm more happy about what this means for both the Academy going forward and the world at large.
So in the words of one great Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-woo
"This is so metaphorical"
2282. Yorum: enjoying future best picture 2020 winner before it wins tonight
2283. Yorum: “It’s the rock which keeps holding onto me.”

Grasping the lowlife, or the lowlife grasping us? Either way, the bad smell remains. And the disdain towards it, even more.
My heart was beating faster on *those* sequences this second time around. Truly one of the finest films of the year. This Bongs.
2284. Yorum: “That’s so metaphorical!”
I’m going to watch this at least 5 more times.
Thrilling and funny, sad and joyful, beautiful and filthy, I’m pretty sure Parasite has everything. There are few times I watch a movie and feel that it executes everything the filmmaker wanted the way they wanted it shown; the last modern film to do that to me was Moonlight, and Parasite is reaching for a whole lot of commentary where Moonlight isn’t really (they’re not really comparable). The only thing holding me back from a perfect rating is unpacking the whole damn thing; every single bit of it feels planned and purposeful, every element filled with meaning and satire and importance. This is an essay-friendly movie, and I mean that in the best way possible. Parasite is a trip, a movie operating at YHE highest possible level and taking no prisoners in who it mocks and critiques. Also, maybe the anti-Shoplifters? I’m not the first one to point out their similarities but they seem to be ideologically opposite in their view of family and what that means. I don’t know, I need to watch that movie again. And this one. It’s things like this that make me love cinema!!! FILM IS ALIVE BABY!!!!!!!!!!
2285. Yorum: i am ..blown away the movie title couldnt be more perfect, this was amazing from every angle and i am so glad it won this yrs palme d'or because it deserved it!! it was so smart + well knit and nowhere near predictable, this was a masterpiece full stop. also i think if you watch this and us (2019) back to back your third eye will open
2286. Yorum: Watched this without subtitles in a Korean theater, just to see what the experience would be like. I was a little worried that I would get nothing from the story without being able to understand the langauge, but I still enjoyed the hell out of this movie. It was so fun and all over the place, and I can't wait to rewatch soon.
<9.0/10>
2287. Yorum: Watching this in Black & White just changed the whole atmosphere completely and I adored it!!
2288. Yorum: 
2289. Yorum: “Você sabe o que é melhor do que ter um plano? Não ter plano algum. Nada pode dar errado se você não tiver planos.”
"Parasita" é um filme tão intenso, realista e imprevisível que mexe com a gente de uma maneira única. As Questões sociais que são abordada se intensificam na trama de uma forma crua e direta, mostrando como a busca pelo status e pela riqueza pode levar as pessoas a extremos inimagináveis.
Pode se dizer que é uma história que de alguma forma todo mundo alguma vez na vida já ouviu. Sobre as pessoas que mentem fingindo ser o que não são para levar uma vida melhor que elas tem sem nenhum tipo de esforço. Ou melhor, levar a vida dos outros burlando tudo a sua volta. Não importa se é pra arrumar um relacionamento com alguém mais sofisticado ou se é pra entrar num circulo social maior do que a pessoa está.
Na cena em que Ki-Woo diz: "Eu me encaixo? No mundo daquelas pessoas?" Vemos que ele tem o senso, ou a dúvida, de que talvez não tenha sido destinado a pertencer aquele lugar e aos padrões daquele mundo e de como aquelas pessoas agem, mesmo arquitetando tudo para que um dia possa chegar aos padrões da riqueza.
A história da família Ki-taek é comovente e ao mesmo tempo perturbadora, nos fazendo refletir sobre os limites que o ser humano está dispostos a ultrapassar para alcançar seus objetivos. A maneira como o diretor Bong Joon-ho conduz a narrativa, alternando entre momentos de tensão e de humor, e o contraste entre família rica e a família pobre é simplesmente genial. É surpreendente em tudo, a forma que eles agem são pensadas e metódicas, coisa de profissional, pode ser um pouco forçado em alguns momentos mas eu consegui me imergir bem na trama. E Bong Joon-ho mostra tudo de forma cômica, tensa, um peso dramático forte, quando a situação social da família pobre piora na incrível cena da chuva. Onde os ricos se divertiam com o que acontecia e o outros perdiam até o que não tinham, tudo se transbordava na água junto com suas lembranças do que viveram lá.
Parasita é um filme que transcende as barreiras culturais e ressoa profundamente com o público de todo o mundo, é surpreendente, extremamente original e cativante em todos os aspectos, um filme que carrega uma crítica social poderosa e extremamente necessária. Nota: 9/10
2290. Yorum: This film is a masterpiece, everything was immaculately planned and executed. It was so comical at the start so at the end I got caught off guard with the tragedy so sad.
2291. Yorum: PUTA QUE PARIU! 
Ainda estou digerindo oque eu acabei de assistir. Não sei porque demorei tanto tempo pra assistir este filme. Estou sem palavras. Roteiro genial. Direção impecável. E crítica social fofa! Não tenho nada além de elogios a essa obra.
2292. Yorum: GLOBO EU TE VENERO
2293. Yorum: the scene of them hiding under the coffee table was so…. if you know you know. had me sweating for them!!! this was truly worth the 2 hours i don’t even know where to begin
2294. Yorum: Шедевральная, красивая и очень трогательная история, где с каждым пересмотром хочется снова и снова возвращаться к этому кинополотну, очень яркая отличная режиссура и операторка, а сюжет очень мощно держится на напряжение и разных событиях от которых ты просто ахуеваешь каждый раз, оценки и сколько Оскаров он забрал это все абсолютные факты. Просто, браво Пон Джун-Хо, это все что я хочу сказать.
2295. Yorum: R.I.P lee sun kyun, you will be missed
2296. Yorum: “you know what kind of plan never fails? no plan. no plan at all”
oh my GOD bong joon-ho you’ve done it again. this man just does not miss. 
parasite is one of the most thought-provoking, anxiety-inducing films i have ever watched. the cinematography was absolutely stunning, from the dark, rainy streets at night, to the long, still shots of the house, it was all truly incredible. every moment of this film was captivating, right from the very start, it holds your attention very well throughout. the first half of this film is very different to the second half. it starts off as like a dark, satirical drama, but once we hit the half way point, things take a turn and it just morphs into this enthralling, suspenseful thriller.
the characters were all well written, and the cast played their roles perfectly. i’ve seen song kang-ho in 2 other films, the host and lady vengeance, and his performance in those were incredible, but i feel like he excels in his role in this film. park so-dam was also unbelievable in this film. everything seems to come so natural to her. but lee jung-eun probably stood out the most to me. i first felt sympathy for her, but that soon changed when i realised her intentions. a performance that can make you change how you feel about a character that quick, it just goes to show how well written her character was, and how convincing of a performance she gave. 
i cannot think of one single fault to this film, it was an emotional experience to say the least. i feel like a lot of people have already seen this, but if you haven’t i promise it is so worth your time!
2297. Yorum: Perfectly done.
2298. Yorum: 100
Rainy day classic. Possibly the greatest film made.
2299. Yorum: You guys ever heard of this?????????
2300. Yorum: Decided to start the year right and finally watch this beloved masterpiece. I have nothing negative to say about Parasite I mean it's basically flawless. The best film of 2019, maybe the best of the 2010's. It's funny, sad, tense, and thought provoking. Shot, written, and acted to perfection. One of the best films I've ever seen.
Favorite movies for each year of my life
The Best Movies
2301. Yorum: 
2302. Yorum: I hadn't seen this movie in a very long time, but I recently got the bluray, and it's just amazing to see how it still stands the test of time. Bong Joon-ho is careful in crafting this masterpiece, with a tight script, a really important sense of space and metaphor, great dark humor, and overall a perfect and sharp film.
If anything, this time around, the story felt way more tragic and sad. There's something so brutal beneath all the humor, and it's almost terrifying to see this piercing portrait of society and social class; the last hour just creeps with silence, and there's a very gloomy atmosphere surrounding it all. Bong Joon-ho really is a master, and this movie is filled with details.
Top 75, all-time favorites
2303. Yorum: Such an amazing film filled with dark humour.  Excellent performances all around. 
A perfect film to kick off Lou and I’s Subtitled Sunday watchathon! 😄
2304. Yorum: outstanding is an understatement. there is no word in the english language that comes close to the praise that deserves to become synonymous with this film.
2305. Yorum: Definitely works even better as the second half of a double feature paired with Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy.
2306. Yorum: If I thought I was smart or clever enough to commend this film in a way that hasn’t already been done, I’d give it a try, but the fact is I’m not, so I’ll just say it’s an absolutely flawless film, and leave it at that.
2307. Yorum: depois de muito tempo enrolando pra ver esse finalmente assisti a essa obra prima.
ISSO É CINEMA!!!
2308. Yorum: I love how in the first half it's a scummy comedy and in the second half it becomes a full throttle thriller. Also, the house of the rich people...have you seen those hyper realistic minecraft mansions people do on YT? THIS WAS THE HOUSE OF THE RICH FAMILY I SWEAR TO GOD
8.5/10
2309. Yorum: when you watch it for the third or tenth time it doesn't become less significant.
it's terribly brilliant and fascinating how sorrowful the comedy becomes when you have two trivial families fighting for survival. perhaps the perception expands among every detail existing in the characters and in what says their desire to grow part of the oppressive society where the capitalist hierarchy predominates. after all, there is an exciting balance to trying not to give in to failure.
2310. Yorum: Ki-taek: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
I never get tired to revisit Parasite when I get the chance. Every time I rewatch it, it's like the first time I'm seeing it. This is what experiencing cinema should be like.
Parasite has everything. It's a "family movie" (Bong Joon Ho insists on that) that follows with a touch of comedy, suspense and horror. It's got it all. Everyone has their needs in this movie.
Bong Joon Ho points out a lot of South Korea's society issues. From the fall of the Tawainese pastries restaurants, to the abandonment of the poor in the basements, even the disconnection of reality from the rich Park family (fantasizing about being poor and selling drugs, the disgust they show because of the Ki-taek family's smell), there's a lot of elements to dissect.
I also love how Bong uses food to show the evolution of the Ki-taek family's ascension: starting with a soft bread and cheap beer, then a Korean barbecue with Japanese beer, and finally tasting without care all the whiskeys in the Park's house.
Every time I try to understand the metaphors in this film, but I feel like I don't have to. Because Bong Joon Ho love so much to trick with the audience (and just like Ki Woo throwing "It's metaphorical" everywhere), I genuinely believe that he wanted to make a simple family movie, while staying simplistic in the representation of his criticism. But still, what's the rock supposed to mean? A heavy weight of Ki Woo's expectations and responsibilities? I'm curious about it!
Anyway, this is one of the best cinematic experiences I ever had, and a proof that Bong Joon Ho is probably one of the best directors of our generation.
2311. Yorum: this would have been better if dababy was featured in it.
2312. Yorum: Bu filmi üzerinden 1 yıl geçerek izleme sebebim tamamen kitlenin kötü olmasındandı. Ne zaman film konusu açılsa 'abiiii parasite izledin mi o neydi öyle bee' muhabbetiyle karşılaştığım için büyük önyargım vardı. Bu önyargıları kırıp izledim.
Öncelikle 4 oscar hak ettiğini düşündüğüm bir film olmadı, sadece en iyi özgün senaryo ve yabancı dilde en iyi film oscarını uygun gördüm. Diğer ikisi çok tartışmaya açık ama toplamda 265 ödül almak nedir yani mashallah.
Asya ülkelerinde bodrum hayatı gerçekten akılalmaz bir seviyede ve bu film o hayata bir nevi ışık tutmuş. Gerçekten sersefil hayatlar yaşanırken zengin kesimin hiçbir şeyden haberinin olmadığını kapitalist sistemi de araya serpiştirerek usul usul anlatmışlar. Güney Kore'nin depresyon oranını da göz önüne alırsak muhteşem bir senaryo oluşturulmuş. Eşitlik, adalet, eğitimsizlik, gelecek kaygısı gibi birçok sosyal konuyu ele alması bakımından da hoşuma gitti. Kore kültürüne dair illaki mesajlar bekliyordum bunu ilk taş metaforuyla görmüş olduk. Pizza kutuları ve ailenin 3 kişi kalması vs. derken bir nevi o coğrafya hakkında bilgi veren bir yapım olmuş. Başka ne diyelim bereket versin Bong Joon-ho.
2313. Yorum: Bong’s 3rd acts          Uni deadlines
                              🤝
                 Giving me anxiety
2314. Yorum: 
2315. Yorum: tell me why bong joon-ho didn’t pull a cady heron at the oscars and give bits of his best picture award to steve pemberton and reece shearsmith since this film is clearly a copy of a quiet night in and to have and to hold 😤
2316. Yorum: Second watch, this time with my wife (who fucking loved it, as I knew she would). Holds up beautifully, and so much great foreshadowing the second time around. And that first half is truly impeccable.
You know, during the Oscar surge, a lot of people kept complaining that Park So-Dam got robbed of a nomination and I didn’t quite get it. Now I get it - she really is fabulous. I suspect part of the issue for the Academy is that her character is so internal and opaque - she almost never gives the audience a window into her thoughts. 
Going up a half star to a rare 9/10.
2317. Yorum: Adelaide University Film Society is back in action, baby! I am sceptical that we'll be able to run for longer than a few weeks, but for now all I can do is enjoy it while it lasts.
We put this on the schedule when we organised it back in February, when the Bong was still smoking. Yes, now we've all seen this fucking movie but nobody was going to complain. It's pretty good, I guess.
2318. Yorum: Highly entertaining watch.
Bong Joon-ho channeling a stronger Tsui Hark than all imitators (and some dare say, even the master himself) in an extended "Hide N Seek" sequence the kind of which I always love to death, featuring the most likeable scumbag family on the planet.
Everyone's a natural. They ease into this role so effortlessly I'm guessing it's making a slew of actors jealous right now.
2319. Yorum: i had a chance to see the black and white version of this masterpiece at the cinema this afternoon and it was beautiful
im so so so happy this incredible film won best picture!!
2320. Yorum: The shot of the sister smoking in the flooded apartment, sitting on the lid as the toilet belches out filth, may be the coolest thing I’ve ever seen.
If the film isn’t quite the Second Coming, it comes closer than most. Art that segues from comedy into something warmer or darker or weirder is always interesting, and though the second half of Parasite isn’t as flawlessly sure-footed as the first – after the TB set-piece, edited like a heist, the cinema started applauding – it boasts the same keen eye, ironic rug-pulling sensibility, and unteachable split-second timing. There’s such anger under the film’s playfulness, such blackly comic relish beneath the violence. It’s the most enjoyable polemic about income inequality I’ve watched in quite some time.
2321. Yorum: An often bamboozling genre mash-up of 'the con is on'/social satire/pratfalling physical comedy/oddball horror flick, the one thing you can say is its very Korean.
The first half of the film concerns itself with two families - one very much down on its luck, having intelligence and wit to spare, but not two brass farthings to rub together; the other incredibly rich and prosperous, heavily reliant on others to do their most menial of chores. With a tone almost reminiscent of The Sting in terms of its lightness, the first hour shows how one after the other, the first family slowly starts to embed itself in that of the second, very unsubtly showing exactly where the film's title came from.
Its clever, its amusing, its not at all what you expect it to be. And then at the halfway point, the plot about faces in a way that feels very leftfield, meaning you either accept it and go with it, or you just can't. From here, we get elements of broad farce as one family tries desperately to hide from the other; we get elements of social satire as one family slowly starts to turn into the other based around nothing more than luck and chance; and slowly you realise that even though the film is still maintaining a fairly light and breezy tone, you feel it inexorably heading towards something darker - the situations escalate slowly and rationally, but when it all comes to a head and some shock violence explodes, the film has completely wrongfooted you, ensuring you don't know who will make it out of this and who won't and also ensuring that come its end, you really don't know how to feel about it.
Its masterfully designed and shot - the house is as much a character as any of the leads, with Joon Ho's camera often prowling around like one of the cast. The bizarre mix of genres never feels forced or jarring, instead slowly evolving like some form of twisted reality. And while there are a couple of plot beats that may feel somewhat convoluted (a basement, a storm), it never loses you, always making sure you're fully caught up in the plight of these families.
Hugely fascinating, yet still feeling somewhat undeserving of the world-wide unanimous praise this seems to be getting (possibly due to the very odd genre blend meaning its unlike almost every other breakout Asian film to date), its a very strange but intriguing film that is well worth a visit.
2322. Yorum: me (the entire time): 😱😲😱😲😱
To put it into words: Holy Shit.
[023/365 new (to me) movies in 2020]
2323. Yorum: Best Picture Revisited Film #2:
While "Parasite" might not be my personal favourite film of 2019, I honestly think it might just be the most overall best made one. This is such an expertly plotted, cleverly scripted and just wholly original film from Bong Joon-Ho. The entire ensembles performances are terrific and this movie just has so much to say. It balances tones so well that it's nearly impossible to determine what genre this movie falls under. Just such a well done movie that i can recommend to anyone. You're really missing out if you still refuse to read subtitles. Honestly wouldn't be surprised if this walks away with Best Picture.
2324. Yorum: every time i watch a non-parasite movie i cant focus and 50% of my brain is being used to think about how much i'd rather be watching parasite.
2325. Yorum: Bong just-hoed us all with this seductive little masterpiece.
2326. Yorum: Featured Lists 
  > 2019 Ranked 
  > Non-2020 First Time Watches 
  > Best Picture Nominees Ranked
“You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned”
Parasite, a movie that I had a lot of anticipation going into just because of its high reviews. Even still, I was still shocked at the events of this movie.
Something I always love in a movie is when everything matters. A movie that comes to my mind is It when it comes to making ever scene mattered. This movie did that perfectly and then some. Bong Joon-Ho made even the subtleties matter and play into the story. There’s one scene in which we hear about an incident involving one of the characters and it came back in a big way later on. It didn’t seem to be a big deal then, but it definitely impacted the story which I loved.
The story itself is incredible. A poor family in the Kims working and manipulating an upper class family, the Parks. It’s starts with one of the family members working for the Parks and it just grows from there. They way they go about this too is just crazy and well written. It’s also a class struggle which is done in a specific and unique way. There’s one scene in which one house is flooded and the family goes through their things and the other is shown in their big bathroom and massive closet full of expensive clothes. A truly powerful element to this film that is played out in many different storylines.
The aspect I really wasn’t expecting going into this movie was the shock factor. This movie was so unpredictable which made it pretty intense at points. The last hour of this movie flew by and had me glued to the screen. Everything that went down was so crazy and just so good. I didn’t even mention the cinematography or directing, but that was amazing as well.  
There’s only a couple of nit picky things that keep this from a five star movie. The first of which being the unnecessary action of one of our characters at the end (if you’ve seen it you know what I’m talking about). And there was a relationship built too quickly and then totally forgotten about until the end. Those are the only two things, very small, but the difference between 4.5 and 5 stars.
Closing Remarks 
Overall, Parasite lived up to the hype which a lot of movies cannot say. Would I recommend this movie? Yes. With how many excellent movies that have been released this year, Parasite is almost at the top of the list.
Overall Rating: A
2327. Yorum: 
2328. Yorum: Listen, do you know how to make ram-dong?
That's the exact line where Parasite turns the screw. After the movie spends its time stockpiling its powder, a rainstorm, a doorbell and a phonecall light the whole thing on fire. If that doesn't make sense, stop reading. Go in blind, and it will knock you the fuck out. If you have seen it, then you already know Bong Joon-ho's black comedy class warfare thriller not only holds up, but hits every mark on revisit. The story has been layered and crafted with great care, and the end result is a movie that's sharp, tense and hilarious. For me, it slumps just a bit in the final act, but overall it's easily one of the best and most outright entertaining films of 2019.
2329. Yorum: Brought my mom this time and this was the first time she said “wow” after seeing a film.
2330. Yorum: This film is seriously fuckin’ perfect, everything it tries to do it does so flawlessly. On third viewing, it flows by EVEN better and gets better in general as a whole. While on a first viewing I was mostly focused on the overall plot and sequence of events, and on second viewing I paid more attention to the many set-ups and payoffs, on this watch I was just left admiring every single element of the overall craft so much. The direction is incredibly commanding and energetic and ties everything together beautifully, along with breathtaking cinematography and just insane camerawork, making for so many memorable shots. The script is also easily one of the best ever and not only is it incredibly nuanced and well-written overall but there seriously isn’t a single line of dialogue that doesn’t serve a specific purpose, narratively, thematically or character-wise. The production design is immaculate and characterful, the editing is superb, the performances are amazing across the board, and the score is simply unreal, it’s now in my top 10 favorite movie scores of all time, it’s incredibly intense and exhilarating even without the corresponding images and is just so well-composed and full of variety in tones.
This is a film that I’m sure I’ll think about constantly in the future and will continue to gush about for years, possibly decades to come, and I’m so happy it’s getting the attention and recognition it deserves (all three times I watched it in theaters it was sold out and the audience was clearly just loving it the whole way through, laughing at every “joke”, audibly shocked at multiple moments and just completely transfixed from beginning to end). It’s amazing to see a film that feels like it was made specifically for you, and even though I’ll never know what it was like to see something like Pulp Fiction for the first time when it came out, seeing this in theaters is I think the closest I’ll ever get to that feeling.
Anyway, best film of the decade (yes, I’ve officially joined the #hive), it’s definitely in my top 5-10 films of all time and after a couple other rewatches I can see it solidifying itself as my absolute favorite film of all time.
Man I love movies.
2331. Yorum: Parasite...

































































HOLEY SHIT WHERE THE FUCK DID THIS AMAZING MASTERPIECE COME FROM IT SHOULD WIN EVERY OSCAR (besides best-animated feature and short and best documentary) IT IS SO PERFECT
2332. Yorum: What an absolutely stunning piece of work. A nasty, biting little satire...but one that also has so much heart.
There’s nothing more exhilarating than sitting down to watch a film that you know nothing about and letting it take you on a journey and wallop you in the face for 2 solid hours. 
Best film of 2019? Almost definitely
2333. Yorum: *Mr. Kim walks by*
Mr. Park: 🤧
2334. Yorum: keeping up this 5 star streak
also Da-Song needs 100 trauma recovery cakes after this
2335. Yorum: ah si
2336. Yorum: The line-up to get in for this movie at today’s Vancouver International Film Festival screening ran for hundreds of people, took in multiple city blocks... and these were people who, like me, already had tickets... it was a site that warmed my cinema-loving heart... and then the sights and sounds of ‘Parasite’ lived up to that excitement in every single way... remarkably funny... just so fucking funny... until the laughs quickly stop... but whatever tone it strikes, it’s a truly brilliant parable of class warfare and the unfortunate reality that for someone to rise up, someone else has to be taken down.
My best movie theatre experience of the year (and it is pure, non-stop theatre)... my first five-star movie of the year... and absolutely in contention for my movie of the year.
2337. Yorum: Class struggle in its purest form.
It's not just the economy that separates us from the rich - it is the smell.
That fact makes the imitation of the Bourgeois lifestlye impossible.
That fact makes peace with the current system impossible.
2338. Yorum: First and foremost, this is contemporary masterpiece that depicts class struggle as brilliantly as a much-beloved Charles Dickens or Victor Hugo novel would, but by updating it to a 2019 social landscape and setting it in South Korea he in turns created a refreshingly magnificent beast of a film; The perfectly titled Parasite—2019's greatest movie of the year so far—is such a fiendishly bold high-wire act of filmmaking, juggling so many characters, styles, genres and tones so effortlessly that I was just consistently in awe of the craft as Joon-ho Bong never sets a foot wrong on his tightly wound rope of a film.
Not since Memories of Murder—which I consider to be one of the greatest films ever made—has Bong come this close to putting my paralyzing state of utter rapturous cinematic satisfaction. The South Korean maestro is back on top form in the grandest of fashions. He's always been a socially conscious filmmaker, and with Parasite he swings big, and hits home as he sinks his tendrils under your skin. This movie is pure bliss to watch. Heavenly in every sense of the word due to the bravura filmmaking.
The concept of Parasite is tremendously original, yet it feels simple and close to life, and as the story progresses, unexpected twists and imagination are around every corner. The entire film is well chiseled in every aspect. The use of color and the overall cinematography and editing of the film is top class. Pairing Bong with the strong cast—including Bong regular, Song Kang-ho, who is one of world cinema's greatest actors—also makes the film a no-doubt masterpiece. At the end of the day, the colorful group of characters are what will be remembered the most, each and every one of them is worth savoring and are beautifully crafted. This is one of the best sets of characters I've seen in a film in a long time.
Parasite is a craft masterclass in which the power of the story lies in the way comedy and drama rub off on each other in the proper way to ignite elements of unbearable thriller that turns into pure horror when despair and hatred meet each other. Bong uses very creative black comedy to improve stories of inequality, economic imbalance, inherent corruption and power abuse that reflect South Korean society's view. The political satire and themes on class struggle are fascinating, they're intrinsically baked into the narrative and backstory of the characters without ever being in your face or obnoxiously telling you what to think. The subtext is impressively underplayed, with the second hour leaving no stone unturned.
Even if you were to purely watch this without wanting to think about social satire, it's still an unbelievable film. It takes you on a mysterious thrill ride with some of the most interesting and unique characters put to screen this decade, the story goes to places you would never dream it would, and the soundtrack will be stuck in your head for days after you see it. Parasite is the kind of film that would reward multiple viewings that will reveal even greater context about each of the meticulously-created characters. It's a mile a minute masterpiece from one of the most exceptional auteur directors working today and was more than worthy of taking the Palme d'Or
Added to: [2019] – What I’ve Seen – [Ranked]
2339. Yorum: WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK
2340. Yorum: 
2341. Yorum: The perpetuation of class struggle and working-class-competition-manifested-through-systemic-economic-retention as poignant, barraging satire. Simultaneously, a hyper-critical examination of the insidious eloquence in architecture's articulation of class segregation, formally operating as, primarily, a movie about the omnipresence and behavioural instigation provoked by architecture as to control and regulate conduct.
This is unequivocally how we should end off a decade fuelled and monopolized by corporate escapism, I'm not going to lie to you. Here's to the revolutionary 20s..
2342. Yorum: there's a scene in which a peach and an unexpected piece of classical music are involved and it's great, literally my aesthetic, this is what I want to achieve ! ! !
2343. Yorum: Wahrscheinlich sehr weit hergeholt, aber teilweise kommt mir "Parasite" so vor, wie eine amüsantere sowie boshaftere Version von "Shoplifters"!
Eigentlich gehören Komödien nicht zu meinen bevorzugten Genres
- vor allem nicht in den letzten Jahren -, aber "Parasite" hat mich durchgängig hervorragend amüsiert!
Die Geschichte beginnt als etwas bissige Familien-Tragikkomödie und wird mit zunehmender Laufzeit immer perfider und boshafter!
Die allgemeine Story bleibt relativ unvorhersehbar und ist übersät mit herrlichen Einfällen und Überraschungen.
Die Figuren sind hervorragend gezeichnet und entwickeln sich glaubwürdig.
Asiatischer Humor ist mir oft zu grotesk und überdreht, aber der schwarze/bissige Humor von "Parasite" ist wesentlich "bodenständiger" und fühlt sich für mich auch gewohnter an.
Mich hat so ziemlich jede Entwicklung, jeder Gag, jede Pointe zum lachen gebracht!
Der Film wird ja - zumindest in manchen Artikeln - als
schwarze "Tragikkomödie" bezeichnet, und das ist auch eigentlich die exakte Genre-Zuordnung, mMn.! Nur ist mein Problem/Vorteil, dass
ich die "Tragik" zwar gesehen, aber nicht gefühlt habe!
Sogar das Ende, das eigentlich/wahrscheinlich (mitunter) tragisch sein soll, finde ich einfach nur herrlich amüsant - ich saß sozusagen über die Gesamtlaufzeit mit einem breiten, hämischen Grinsen im Saal.
Nagtive Kritikpunkte? Hm, also "objektiv" gibt es hier - meiner Ansicht nach - nichts zu beanstanden! Aus subjektiver Sicht hätte ich mir EVENTUELL gewünscht, dass eine bestimmte Figur öfter bzw. nochmal vorkommt, aber generell bin ich vollkommen zufrieden, mit dem was "Parasite" bietet!
Ich habe nur wenige Komödien innerhalb der aktuellen Dekade gesehen (und habe auch nicht vor, viel daran zu ändern), aber für mich ist "Parasite" die eindeutig beste Komödie der Dekade!
2344. Yorum: Might as well make my best of the year list now cause I really don’t possibly see how it can get much better than this!
2345. Yorum: holy fuck this was insane😭i genuinely felt my heart racing during the 2nd act
2346. Yorum: I am not gonna log this every now and then with a big review. I'll just put 1 phrase or something... But yeah, still a masterpiece 😅
My thoughts: boxd.it/6gFZb9
Gimme a song recommendation or something idk (I wanna put more here) haha
2347. Yorum: I love the scents in this movie: the stink bug, the sewage, the "Mr. Kim" smell, the piss in the street, and the smell of the basement guy
2348. Yorum: PLEASE DONT COME AT ME FOR THE FOUR STAR RATING 😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭
I really did like this film!!!!! I thought it was excellently shot, the pacing and cinematography was great. The single scene of the basement guy peering over the stairs is more unsettling than anything from Insidious or the likes. My favourite shot from the whole movie by far. Score was good, though not memorable, and the acting was really good as well. I loved the tone shift between the almost comedy like feeling of the first act and total thriller of the middle and last acts. The script and lines were amazing, full of foreshadowing and metaphors. 
Maybe i’ve seen too many psychological thriller films but I found this a little predictable and tame, in a way. Everyone raved about it so I expected something grand, unexpected, and different, but it was just like Us or Get Out. I feel as though the final scenes and act could have been better, but still a really stunning film.
2349. Yorum: THIS WAS SO GOOD WTF??!?!?
I kept waiting and waiting to watch it idk why 
But now that I finally have I regret not doing it earlier
this movie has soooo many beautiful shots
All the twists + the set up? SO GOOD
also the ending was literally insane like?????
2350. Yorum: Felicidade de pobre dura pouco
Uma família vive abaixo da linha da pobreza e precisam ser espertos e unidos para conseguir o mínimo para sobreviver
Ent o filho recebe uma oportunidade de um amigo (nem tudo é realmente uma pedra no caminho) que o indica para ser professor de uma moça que é filha de pais ricos. Apesar dele não ser professor, mesmo tendo conhecimento mas não sendo qualificado devido a falta de diploma... ou de oportunidade msm
Durante as aulas, ele convence a patroa a contratar uma professora de artes para o outro filho encapetado dela supostamente artista, essa professora na verdade é a irmã dele também enganando-os e aumentando a renda
Após isso, eles começam a armar planos para colocar o pai e depois a mãe para trabalhar pros ricos, de uma maneira traiçoeira com os antigos empregados
Mas pensando bem é exatamente assim como é o mercado de trabalho, pobre contra pobre por vagas limitadas, eles até chegam a pensar nos outros funcionários, mas precisam do lugar deles para terem suas vidas, ent a ganância e o egoísmo falam mais alto, mas é difícil julgar pq ngm tem pena de ngm, a casa só abriga um parasita, e por isso é cruel mas necessário esse Round 6 de funcionários.
A família pobre estava agradecida e feliz por estarem empregados, todos alimentados e com dinheiro, mas como disse no início, a alegria do pobre dura pouco, uma antiga funcionária retorna para revelar um segredo na casa, e ent ela acaba descobrindo a sujeira e mentira da família trapaceira, as coisas ficam tensas e começam a sair do controle, td está mt perto de dar merda, e o final é impactante!
Apesar da fama, eu enrolei mt para assistir esse filme, eu tava preocupado com a proposta de crítica social do tipo "pobres só se fodem, ricos maus" bla bla bla, mas nesse é justamente o contrário, os ricos são "bonzinhos", e faz mt sentido, se um dia o pobre ganhar na loteria ou enriquecer que nem um famoso, a única coisa que ele faria seria gastar toda a grana, festa e muita diversão o tempo todo
Já o pobre vive um Battle Royale todo dia, lutando contra os semelhantes por uma fração de alegria, é difícil julgar as atitudes deles quando a vida é terrível ou quando não vivencia algo parecido
Teve uma época que não tinhamos net em casa, e às vezes eu saía de casa para pegar o wifi de uns lugares q eu tinha a senha, fora as coisas que nunca pude ter quando criança, e hj eu consigo pq tenho trabalho e cartão de crédito, enfim
Considero um dos melhores filmes que já vi, merecidos os Oscars e o reconhecimento que sempre ouvi falar
--- -... .-. .- -....- .--. .-. .. -- .- /
2351. Yorum: Sigh. I put this film on because the other day my work cut my hours, ..by half. It’s crazy to think how people who are so incredibly well off can make such a decision and expect you to survive. I needed a pick-me-up, and this film is it. The great lengths we go to prevail in this world, and here I am trying to do just that. 
Sure, I don’t live in a sub-basement, and I don’t siphon my wifi from neighbors, but some could be a paycheck away from that if we’re not careful. Boon Joon-ho carefully and precisely presents that aesthetic here along with the tightrope some of us walk in order to earn our income. Especially if it means fluffing ourselves up to be noticed among the fortunate. (I know I sure do/did in my position.)
If you’re struggling out there, this film will be a pleasant serotonin boost. I needed the laughter, the tension and ultimate the escape from the current horror of my life. Love that films can do just that.
On that note, if you need a graphic designer in your project, I’d love to be your person!
via Plex
2352. Yorum: This film means everything to me. It was the one that started getting me (more) into film and broadening my knowledge about film in general. Since then, I have seen many different and unique films that I very much enjoy. Every single time that I watch this, I’m always invested in the story because it’s such an interesting one. The performances, cinematography, music, etc. are also very magnificent. Parasite definitely earned those Oscars and it’s not hard to see why
2353. Yorum: 
2354. Yorum: This movie came out 1016 days ago and the world still hasn’t recovered
2355. Yorum: Después de este rewatch van como 6 o 7 veces que he visto esta película, entre más la veo y más me gusta.
Parasite es y será una de mis 10 películas favoritas de todos los tiempos, no solamente porque es una obra maestra absoluta en todos los aspectos, si no porque es también la película (junto a Se7en) que me hizo amar el cine, sin ella y sin haber visto esta película en el cine pienso que nunca me hubiera adentrado en el maravilloso mundo del séptimo arte tanto como ahora.
Que se puede decir de esta película? Me parece absolutamente perfecta, tiene la mejor dirección que he podido ver en una película, una fotografía con tanta sutileza y simbolismos, un guión impecable, actuaciones increíbles, la banda sonora acompañando los momentos y dándole emoción, la historia nada predecible...te sorprende y te vuelve a sorprender, todo con suma coherencia y de forma inteligente. La sátira hacia la vil imagen de la misma sociedad y la polución y DIABLOS, hasta el nombre está perfecto con la temática de esta película: no hay héroes o villanos, no es una historia de los pobres son buenos y los ricos son malos (y viceversa), es una historia sobre parásitos que se introducen hacía en lo más fondo de sus vidas y esperanzas; o sales vivo o mueres. Aún hay gente que en pleno 2021 dice sobrevalorado a cualquier cosa que sea popular, a esta hermosa película lastimosamente tiene este síndrome, gente que dice que no se merece el éxito que tuvo y que ''no es la gran cosa'' en su gran mayoría sin tener una pizca de argumentos convincentes o haciéndose los genios porque su ''opinión'' es impopular.


Mi último punto es para analizar las obras de Da Song (el niño de la película):
Las obras de Da Song en un punto de vista más claro es cuando te das cuenta que revela el final de la fiesta: la figura del espíritu visto por Da Song se revela como el psicópata termina siendo ESTE espíritu, su mayor pesadilla. Por otra parte, en la segunda obra de Da Song se ve la roca de 3 puntas que tiene Ki-Woo (llamado originalmente ''Suseok''), en propias palabras del director
''Creo que la roca aporta una capa extra a la historia. Se siente como este objeto maldito que termina cubierto de sangre. Cuenta la historia completa de todos estos eventos horribles. No recuerdo por qué lo pensé al principio, pero así fue como terminó''.
''Que este chico joven le entregue eso como regalo es algo extraño. El ambiente en la película también es extraño con él diciendo que esto es simbólico. No puedo dejar que nadie que no está familiarizado con esas rocas lo deje pasar. Tuve que crear ese ambiente extraño''.
El espectador no ve lo que está pasando, ni los hechos, pretende saberlo del modo más superficial dejando a la interpretación las realidades alternas de los hechos...de toda la película, están jugando con el espectador sin que te des cuenta aún. Señoras y señores a esto se le llama lenguaje cinematográfico (por más ''pretencioso'' que suene), y esto es la décima parte de todo los detalles y simbologías de Parasite que prácticamente hay uno en cada escena/fotograma.

Posiblemente la mejor y más ingeniosa película de la última década, Chapeau.
2356. Yorum: Didn’t realize, But I crossed 500 followers, Thanks to everyone who has been kind and a great support for me❤️

Special Thanks to:
@Sam Meltzer🏳️‍🌈
@Mister Gaga
@Sophie
@Raúl Dudas-Lyne
@Michael Cox
@✨Moviesfan123✨
@Thiccthanos Idk
@Tiger Lily🐯🌸
@EliteXMovies
Everyone of you are amazing though 🤩😆



YALL ROCK🎉
2357. Yorum: fifth time watching this
2358. Yorum: Parasite is the 2019 Oscar and Palme d’Or winning film directed by Bong Joon-ho set in South Korea. 
The film centers around an impoverished family who find themselves a way to improve their lives through deceit and cunningness. The family is neither truly good or evil, walking the grey line between the two. However, they get in way over their heads as the film progresses and the film’s simple concept gets turned on its head. 
Defying usual tropes, Parasite creates a simple but convincing world of its own, infusing the perfect blend of comedy and suspense to make the film move by with an impressive pace. 
Parasite is masterful in telling a deeply layered film while being relatable, easy to follow, and thoroughly entertaining. A true classic that will probably be looked back in fondness for generations to come.
2359. Yorum: I started out watching foreign films when I watched Roma last year
In my honest opinion that movie made me want to die
But this is an improvement and I have more hope for foreign language movies
2360. Yorum: Donald Trump has come out and said that Parasite should not have won Best Picture because it's South Korean. If ever there was a film Trump would dislike it's this one. I'm pretty sure he's never watched it due to the "one inch barrier of subtitles" that requires a basic literacy level to get through.
Parasite is a film all about the class system. We open with the Kim family living in a small basement apartment as they steal Wi-Fi from the neighbours. Ki-woo is given an opportunity to become a tutor for the affluent Park family and realises this provides an opportunity to con the Parks into hiring the whole family into different roles. It's done with a lot of fun and you sympathize with the Kim family despite what they are doing being morally wrong.
As the film continues, we begin to wonder if the title Parasite refers to the Kim family at all. Could it in fact refer to the Park family, who use those of a lower social status to make their lives better? The definition of parasite is "an organism that lives in or on an organism of another species (its host) and benefits by deriving nutrients at the other's expense." Well the Park family don't lose out from the inclusion of the Kim family in their lives but the way they live their lives certainly makes the lives of the Kim family and others like them lose out. Trump would hate this idea and one might even suggest that the definition of parasite fits him perfectly.
Parasite initially feels very Korean with details like the poor family living in a basement apartment and the rich family using English as a sign of their social status. But there's a reason why Parasite has had such international success. If you look past these details the film could really be set anywhere. The type of lower status housing and the things people do to assert the higher status differs from place to place but other than that the story could be set in the USA or the UK or pretty much anywhere in the world. People like the Park family are living happily off people like the Kim family wherever you look.
Whilst the film has received many awards few have gone to it's cast which is a shame. The problem is that Parasite has an ensemble cast where every single actor is superb and it's therefore difficult to pick out any individuals as especially deserving. I did however think Park So-dam who plays Ki-jung/ Jessica was particularly strong here but there's not a weak link in sight.
I've seen discussion about this how is a very difficult film tp classify genre-wise. It's very funny yet deeply tragic at the same time. It delves far deeper into social issues than a comedy really ought to and it's climax belongs to another genre completely. In the end, it doesn't really matter- this film can be defined simply as a masterpiece.
[Watched on: Blu-ray]
2361. Yorum: .-.  .  ...  .—.  .  -.-.  -
2362. Yorum: imagine walking out of a screen unseen of this 😩😩😩 unforgivable
2363. Yorum: Plays slightly better on rewatch, but I still find it too controlled to really enjoy it. And while on board with the ideas I didn't find Bong's handling of them that interesting. Overall it's fine, only a disappointment in that Bong has done better than this.
2364. Yorum: Parasite is a cinematic revelation, and a poignant, thought-provoking stroke of genius. This masterpiece is equally as hilarious & emotional, as it is haunting & INSANELY disturbing. We’ve never seen anything like it & doubt we’ll see anything like it again. It deserves to be nominated for everything and WIN everything. Believe the hype.
Also, this has one of the most deeply unsettling shots we’ve ever seen. This SINGLE SHOT is scarier than any horror movie we’ve seen this year. If you’ve seen it, you know which shot we are talking about...
2365. Yorum: random detail, but i love bong joon-ho’s consistent use of diegetic sound here, specifically the sound of bare feet hitting concrete. it’s such a small, seemingly inconsequential choice, but it totally centers the viewer, and proves how tightly constructed parasite is from head to toe.
i wish the audience i was with was more invested. my love for film boils down to my desire to understand my emotions and the emotions of others. i think people are fascinating, and witnessing vastly different reactions to the same piece of art is such a wonderful experience. the only sounds i heard from the dozens of people behind me were snoring. this is such a shocking film, so an audience not reacting at all whatsoever to the wild events seen onscreen is quite bizarre. not to say that everyone has to audibly express how they feel, but no reaction is strange.
anyways! great film! see it!

(but seriously, who could fall asleep during this movie?!)
2366. Yorum: 
2367. Yorum: peaches in cmbyn walked so they could run in parasite
2368. Yorum: MOVED TO NO. 1 IN "2019 RANKED" :) 
Somehow convinced my (cinema-illiterate) Mum to see this and to my pleasant surprise she really liked it and has started recommending it to people! I’m a proud son, because Boon Jong-ho’s latest is a total banger and even better than I gave it credit for the first time around. I stand by the script being the weakest link, but that’s like saying one pro sumo wrestler is weaker than another — still pretty damn strong. Excellent. 9/10 
2369. Yorum: An absolutely splendid mise en scène.
Brilliantly written and directed by Bong Joon-ho, Parasite is an immensely peculiar tragicomedy story and a thought-provoking social commentary between the rich and the poor. It is a comedy without clowns, a tragedy without villains, but actually there are clowns and villains.
Alurnya kompleks namun tetap mudah diikuti, twist yang disajikan begitu multilayered, performance para bintangnya pun sangatlah solid. Menghibur, menyentuh, dan... kacau parah, sih. Calculated. Suspenseful. Kept me on the edge of my seat the entire time.
Selain mirip Shoplifters, kata orang-orang tuh vibe-nya mirip Dogtooth... well, aku setuju, sih. Unsettling gila soalnya dari awal sampai akhir. Scoring-nya pun eerie banget di telinga. Bawaannya nggak tenang sepanjang nonton. Tapi, Parasite ini one of a kind menurutku. It deserves a genre of its own.
Skenario, akting, scoring, staging, pencahayaan, pengambilan gambar, transisi, atmosfer film, semuanya impressive. Definitely worth the Cannes hype!
Also, me in a nutshell: 😃😅😂🤣🤣🤣🙂🙁🤨😱😫😩🤯🥵🥵🥵😕😰😔🥺🤕😭😭
2370. Yorum: I am a Bong Joon-Hoe for Bong Joon-Ho!
Loved every minute of this film. Perfectly balances humour and horror, with lots of twists and turns to keep you constantly hooked and on the edge of your seat. Highly recommend this year’s Palme d’Or winner! I would talk more at length about this but I feel that would be giving too much away. I had no idea what Parasite would be about walking in as I had avoided all spoilers and plot summaries. Really great experience walking into the film blind. I can’t wait to catch up on more films from the Sydney Film Festival that I missed, along with watching all the films from 2019 in my watchlist. So far, this is the best film from this year I’ve seen.
2371. Yorum: this is just amazing i can watch this movie over and over again as well.
2372. Yorum: I know, I’m basic for loving this film and giving it 5 stars. But to this film defense, it’s perfectly crafted and one of the best films to be made. Also on this viewing I loved the ending to this rather than hate on the ending. 
If you haven’t seen this film yet before, for which if you haven’t you for sure should change that. I know most people have seen this but to the few that have stumbled on this review that haven’t seen it, go watch it. 
Going to keep this review spoiler free, just to be on the safe side of things. This film is very cool on the attention to details, the use of sound and how the script is crafted. If there’s an underwhelming aspect, I do think the score on this is kinda weak. 
Otherwise, I just adore this film. I’ll do another review on this at some point in the future. But seriously, check this out if you haven’t. 
(Also that sex scene is very hot)
2373. Yorum: A MENTE DE TITÂNIO DO DIRETOR
UM GRANDE FILMAÇO
MERECEU TODOS OS PRÊMIO DO OSCAR DE 2020
2374. Yorum: Woah…… 
Not really sure what to say except that this is one of the most insane and unique films I’ve ever seen. I absolutely never could have guessed where this was going. Like WHAT 
just woah…?!?
2375. Yorum: OSCAR WINNER
melhor filme estrangeiro, melhor roteiro original, melhor direção e primeira produção em língua não-inglesa a conquistar a estatueta de melhor filme.
2376. Yorum: In this world, there are good films, there are great films, and then there’s Parasite.
2377. Yorum: This is my previous review besides the last part.
10
This is my favorite movie. I've watched it so many times and I still get surprised, emotional and perfection out of it. Yes, this movie is perfect. People often say there is no perfect movie, but it's right here, this is it, in our hands!
The directing by Bong Joon-Ho is just simply outstanding. I'm so excited for Mickey 17. Heck, it's even my most anticipated movie of all time. I'm sad it got delayed almost a full year, but I'm not that mad about it. I just want it to be good. Take all the time you need to make it good, please!
My personal favorite thing about this movie are the characters. I care for all of them, understand their decisions and I am way to connected to them. How every character is just so perfectly written is mindblowing. The ending as well man, I'm getting emotional and cry every time. It's a beautiful way to end such a unique, unpredictable and perfect masterpiece.
Speaking of unpredictable, THE TWIST!?! This may be the best twist in any movie excisting, it's truely perfect. Who thinks of this? So well handled tonally as well. There is a total tonal change in the middle of the movie, and it is so incredibly well done!
If you haven't watched this, then do. You'll love it, I am sure. This is perfection, this is peak cinema, this is IT!!
How many times i've typed perfect or perfection in this review 😅?








I think Im to addicted to this film... Im rewatching it soon with my parents for the first time. Thats gonna be interesting because they haven't seen any Korean films yet😅!
South korea you should do better bro 💀
2378. Yorum: if ki-woo never dropped the stone
2379. Yorum: 
2380. Yorum: essa festa virou um enterro
2381. Yorum: Me surpreendeu bastante. Tudo gira em torno da diferença de classes e como elas interferem na vida de todos os personagens. Ele vai pra uma comédia, depois para um drama e logo em seguida pra um suspense, e isso te deixa bastante apreensivo assistindo tudo acontecer. Ou seja, não é apenas um único gênero presente dentro do filme e isso é tão legal.
2382. Yorum: Watched in glorious 4k. Just an incredibly precise film. It draws its lines, it knows when to cross them.
2383. Yorum: They should have just stuck with their old jobs...
2384. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho is a master storyteller. Parasite hits poetic beats unlike anything else and nothing is done without purpose or payoff. Simply put; Parasite is immaculate. 
5⭐️ Ranking
Best Picture Winners & Nominees 
2385. Yorum: Parasite est un film Coréen magnifique.
2386. Yorum: Divertido até virar hilário. Hilário até virar agoniante. Agoniante até virar triste. Triste até virar enfurecedor.
Parasita é uma coisa até não ser mais. Aí vira outra. Um exercício de gênero que não se encaixa em nenhum. Como se a comédia estivesse escondida no porão do suspense.
2387. Yorum: Finally watched this and holy shit wasn’t disappointed I enjoyed the whole movie were they snuck there family in to getting jobs and then the twist which is a weird twist because you just have that feeling already that something’s got to go wrong so I expected something but not that when she started screaming “honey”. The whole sequence of them escaping the house was tense as fuck and then their house getting flooded was really sad and you just know that the characters priorities have changed and that something big is gonna happen. My favourite thing about this film was the humour it was surprisingly funny. I just feel like I need to rewatch it at least 10 times to appreciate it.
2388. Yorum: Raw unpredictability and creativity at its finest -- safe to say it completely averted my expectations.
2389. Yorum: wow. every bit as excellent as advertised. to me, the very best films feel totally unpredictable until the instant a plot twist happens and then the epiphany hits that everything else in the movie had been building up to that moment. this was that. like of course i could predict generally where the plot was headed, but the sidetracks and back roads it took to get to the final destination were terrifyingly enthralling to gradually uncover. and the cinnamontography!!! sheesh!!! it’s really no wonder this film is as acclaimed as it is. i love it when a movie with a clear message doesn’t feel strictly like a message picture, and this one was handled beautifully. i don’t even have a funny one-liner man this was just a crazy good film
2390. Yorum: 🔥 THRILLING | FLAWLESS 🔥

3rd Watch | Top 100 | 2019 Ranked

Previously the highest rated movie on this site, Parasite is a film that most people are not unfamiliar with. This is my third time watching Parasite and each viewing has been just as rewarding, if not more rewarding, than the last. On my first viewing of the film, I came into the film completely blind. At first, I had no idea that Parasite was a Korean film. At first, I had actually thought that Parasite was a venom film. Nonetheless, I was a little confused during the first five minutes of that initial watch, but once the film started to delve into the story, I was so glad that I was wrong. It had become one of my favorite films. And when I rewatched Parasite, its brilliance still filled me with wonder. And now, for my third watch, not only does its mastery impress me, but even after having watched multiple video essays about this film and having watched this film a few times already, there were a lot of details about the film that made me fall in love with it even more.
Parasite's screenplay is one of the best of all time. My favorite script of all time is Aaron Sorkin's The Social Network for obvious reasons, but Parasite is not far behind. One of my favorite aspects about the film is its use of foreshadowing. I'm sure that most people were able to catch details such as the cockroach dialogue scene. However, there were so many other scenes that use subtle dialogue to hint about upcoming events. For example, at one point Yeon Kyo (the mother of the Park family) says "she knows this house better than me." In this quote, "she" refers to the Moon Gwang, the housekeeper from the beginning of the film. Later in the film, it is revealed that there is a secret bunker that Moon Gwang knew all along. She did know the house better than the Park family. It was a very subtle, but very clever, use of foreshadowing. With another example, at the mansion, Kim says, "Let's go home. Let's take a bath." This quote may not seem significant at first, but then you may remember that shortly after Kim and his two children evade to their home, only for it to be flooded with sewage water. The "bath" that Kim spoke of earlier was actually the flood. These are just two of the countless examples of clever uses of foreshadowing in Parasite, and the foreshadowing was just a mere fraction of the screenplay's exceptional quality.
Parasite is a film about the major gap between classes, and it is achieved through the juxtaposition of the Park family and the Kim family. Most people have probably watched a few video essays of Parasite and understand how the class difference is visually represented by the height difference of their homes. Park's family rests upon the top of a hill, representing their power over the rest of the citizens. Kim's family on the contrary lives in a semi-basement that has an elevation below the road-level, which represents their lack of power. In addition, during the huge plot twist, when we finally learn more about Moon Gwang's character and where her husband has resided for the past four years, we see her running down a hidden cellar. During this tense moment halfway through the film, we learn that Moon Gwang and her husband are just like the Kim family: a desperate family trying to use the Park family's wealth to benefit themselves (like a parasite). These are details that nearly everyone probably knows about the film, but there are so many other details using this same principle. Does the bathroom in the Kim semi-basement feel a little strange? Why is the toilet elevated from the rest of flooring? The film starts out with Ki Woo and Ki Jung desperately looking for a Wi-Fi spot that they could connect to. In the film, the Wi-Fi is used to watch videos about how to correctly perform a job duty that will get them paid. Obtaining money leads to opportunity, and opportunities are often associated with success. Therefore, Parasite uses Wi-Fi to represent success, or power. The toilet seat is the only spot with available Wi-Fi, so the toilet seat being elevated from the rest of the house symbolizes its power. In other words, the toilet in Parasite is another place in the film where the difference of elevation symbolizes power. This is just a tiny detail in a film so rich with nuanced symbolism. However, it is these details that make films such as Parasite so beautiful and masterful. The fact that a simple toilet can have so much depth in a story is why Parasite was the highest ranked film on Letterboxd for a long time.
Speaking of the average Letterboxd Top 250 ranking, it's been some time since Come and See has dethroned Parasite as the highest rated movie on the website. I do have a few friends who absolutely despise Come and See, but I adore both of the two films. However, as much as Come and See disturbed me, I can't deny that Parasite is the better film and, in my opinion, deserves to have stayed in its prior position. Parasite is one of the "smartest" films I've ever seen, with every tiny inconspicuous detail having some relevance to the story. As I have discussed earlier, Parasite has one of the greatest screenplays of all time. However, there are so many more elements of this Bong Joon-Ho masterpiece that I haven't mentioned yet.
One of those elements is Bong Joon-Ho himself. He went all out for this film. He took a very high level of precision when making Parasite. The house was designed from scratch so it could compliment the story that Parasite was trying to tell. Every shot was storyboarded and painted so Bong Joon-Ho could develop a clear visual and idea on what he wanted. He displayed keen direction, as all of his creative decisions turned out to be amazing choices. Parasite was one of the most sophisticated movies I have ever seen, and that is largely thanks to Bong Joon-Ho. Bong Joon-Ho was so attentive that he was willing to spend a large amount on a trash can just because of how smooth it moved. Even though Boon Joon-Ho isn't listed as the editor, it is clear that Bong Joon-Ho had a sharp influence on every aspect of the film, including the remarkable editing. Without Bong Joon-Ho, Parasite wouldn't have just been a worse film, but it likely wouldn't have existed at all. He created such a magnificent job, and though I don't wish to discredit any of the actors, the cinematographer, the editor, and others, one cannot deny the brilliance of Bong Joon-Ho.
In summary, everything about Parasite is perfect. Each actor gives a magnificent performance. There wasn't one character who I thought was poorly or even mediocrely portrayed. It's a crime that Parasite didn't get any Oscar nominations for acting. I would've rather had Parasite be the first predominately Asian film to have many actors win Oscars rather than Everything Everywhere All At Once. The performances in Parasite were leagues above anything in that film. Furthermore, the soundtrack in Parasite put me in awe. Most people remember the soundtrack for the track playing during the "belt of trust" scene, but the score was fantastic in so many more places. In addition, the cinematography in Parasite was marvelous too. From how it panned downwards in the opening frame to the numerous tracking shots, Parasite's cinematography was one of the best parts about the film. I would go as far to say that its cinematography was better than 1917's. A huge reason why 1917 won was because the Academy loves profound cinematography; 1917's cinematography was definitely profound and flashy. In addition to everything else I have said including a lot more that I haven't mentioned, it's easy to see that Parasite is one of the best films of all time. In fact, I have Parasite as objectively the third best film of all-time, only narrowly behind 2001: A Space Odyssey and The Godfather: Part II. Although I tried to give Parasite a great review, no amount of writing can give this film justice. Parasite is a film containing so much depth and subtext, but I know that I have just cracked the surface on the intricacies of Parasite.

⬅️ Previous Review: The Big Lebowski
2391. Yorum: #genius
2392. Yorum: 
2393. Yorum: My 500th film logged on letterboxd, but coincidentally also my 100th of the year. The absolute perfect film to pick for this special occasion. It’s taken me far too long to get around to this. It takes an outstanding director to say a film of this quality wouldn’t be their best, but Bong Joon-ho is exactly that. Some of my favorite cinematography from recent years, impeccable performances, neat production design, fantastic pacing, camera work, editing, and an ending that left my mind completely blank. In my eyes, not only the one of, if not, THE best film from the 2010s, not only one of the most riveting films this century, but also one of the greatest films ever crafted.
“You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.“
Perfection.
2394. Yorum: Watching this makes me feel smart
2395. Yorum: So like objectively the best movie ever?
2396. Yorum: Films Watched in 2022 - Film 112
I’m absolutely itching to see the black and white version of this.
2397. Yorum: Al fin lo logramos... 500 películas registradas en Letterboxd!!!
Queria que la película número 500 que registrara aquí fuera especial y viendo que casi todos lo que sigo ya la habían visto y que me había quedado con ganas de verla decidí escoger Parasite y creanme que fue mi mejor decisión
Parasite quizás parezca una historia simple a primera vista, pero ya adentrándonos a su atmósfera y punto de vista se vuelve demasiado impresionante
Maneja tanto humor negro, drama y suspenso de una manera espectacular, reluciendo más que nada pasando la primera hora
Todas las actuaciones valen la pena en esta película y a pesar de su premisa simple sabe como manejarla de manera que se vuelva impredecible
Eso si, también es un reflejo acerca de las clases sociales en Corea y como estas tienen diferentes maneras de ver el mundo que los rodea
CONCLUSIÓN:
PARASITE (2019) es realmente lo que todo el mundo dice acerca de ella
A pesar de una premisa simple, su atmósfera, actuaciones y puntos de vista son demasiado increíbles
Quizás si, muchos la sobrevaloran pero hay que admitir que es una película que SI o SI debes ver alguna vez en tu vida
También le tendré demasiado cariño al ser la película N°500 registrada en mi Letterboxd
2398. Yorum: I read this just now since I hadn’t in a long time. Not much has changed, but I’ve stretched my pennies long enough to have held on another two years since writing that review. It’s honestly shocking to me. And only possible because the pennies I stretched were mostly my mom’s. The clock is still ticking tho, more than ever…
I wonder what I’ll do to survive next year?
Also, still laughing at the one fool on letterboxd who read this outpouring from me two years ago, fixated on the one paragraph where I said I complain about bad customer service (but only service from white ppl so as to not be a Karen) because I’m too broke to afford having bad customer service experiences (which is the whole fucking point of Parasite - capitalism pitting poor people against each other), and this pissed dude wrote a whole-ass rebuttal review just to tell me to fuck off lmaoooo 
We really do be smashing our heads against that wall together 😌 forever 😌😌😌
2399. Yorum: watching this with people who’ve never watched it before us truly an experience
2400. Yorum: The concept of the three-act structure has been a mainstay of the western film making tradition for ages, but how many acts do you think a Korean film usually has? I know Japanese films often eschew the three-act structure, but they tend to have fewer, maybe two acts. But Korean movies feel like they have seven or eight acts - or maybe that's just because they are the masters of the narrative king-hit. The storytelling version of someone coming up behind you and bashing you in the back of the head with a four-by-two. And then again half an hour later. And then a final kick in the ass for good measure right at the end.
It's been a source of irritation to me that everyone I've had a conversation about film with over the last two years has told me that I should give Parasite a go, because it's subtitled but it's really good (I'm talking about regular people, not movie nerds like you and me). I've frequently descended into this ridiculous indignation like "Oh, don't try and educate me about Korean movies, me and Bong Joon-ho go way back. I've seen more Bong films than you've had hot dinners!!!" which thankfully just confuses people because they know this won all the Oscars but they can't remember Bong's name so they just don't understand a word I'm saying. I should have just watched it a long time ago but hey, I just hadn't got around to it, OK?
And as much as I was lured into the belief that this maybe isn't top-tier Bong by the rather leisurely paced opening forty minutes or so, by the time I was brought back to the disembarkation point of this particular emotional roller coaster ride, I had to admit that the whole thing rather knocked my socks off. This might even be my new favourite Bong Joon-ho movie, which is not something I say lightly.
I know to a certain extent the messaging on social class is pretty obvious and on-the-nose (it had to be if it was recognised by the Academy, subtlety not really being their thing, apparently), but it also feels pretty effortlessly elegant within the structural confines of the narrative. This isn't a movie that takes time out every now and again to make a point. Its entire story premise and series of plot twists are themselves dripping with its broader societal meaning. None of it is even very revelatory in terms of what it is saying, but it says it in such a fucking cool way and provides such a cinematic powerhouse of an experience along the way, you just have to shake your head admiringly.
I know there's a lot more to Korean cinema than Bong Joon-ho and Park Chan-wook, but surely these are the two masters of the art in that industry. And with this film, I'm starting to feel like Bong is really pushing into the lead as regards to who I am more in love with as an artist. I mean, I still love Park, but when Bong gives me this feeling which I can only describe as a kind of awe at what he can do... Yeah. This film is so good, the fact that an actual worthy work of film art managed to win the Best Picture Oscar just fades into insignificance when measured against its own artistic achievement. And then, not content with wiping the floor with the pathetic cinematic expectations of the mainstream cinema-going population, this movie insouciantly winds things up with that magnificently understated, ambiguous, almost surreal final scene. Not necessarily the most memorable moment, but it takes all the emotional tumult that has gone before and compresses it into a reflective moment so we all walk away somehow changed, or at least with the illusion that we have been, even if we can't explain how.
2401. Yorum: Still a damn masterpiece. With every rewatch, it still feels like I’m watching it again for the first time. God I love this film so much.
2402. Yorum: I'm sPEACHless.
הסרט הזה הוא מאסטרווקר בכל הקשור לפרטים קטנים ומשמעותם בעלילה, הכול משרת את הסיפור המסופר, הכול משרת את המסר.
זו דרמה בין מעמדית מופלאה ומחושבת להחריד הנועדה להרעיד את המצפון המוסרי שלנו ולפקוח את עיננו למציאות כאובה- משני צידי המשוואה.
הביקורת העולה מן הסרט היא רלוונטית למציאות שהיום ותמשיך להיות יותר ויותר רלוונטית ככל שהזמן יעבור.
בתחילת הסרט חשבתי שלא אאהב אותו אבל הסוף פוצץ לי את המוח לרסיסים בכמות הטוויסטים והרגעים המבריקים שבו.
זה לא סרט מושלם אבל זו פיסה עוצמתית בטירוף של קולנוע, ומה שעוד יותר מדהים הוא שהיא חדורת מסר בזמן שהיא גם מבדרת, מוכרת ומשווקת תרבות מודרנית- תוך ביקורת סמויה, צינית ומצחיקה עליה.
2403. Yorum: I remember seeing this for the first time in theaters back in the middle of 2019 with my mom. I had no idea what the movie was about other than it was a Bong Joon Ho movie. Never in a million years would i have guessed this movie would blow up the way it did.
Even better on a rewatch, i still feel the ending could be a bit more polished but other than that this movie is pretty much perfect for what it's going for. I also noticed a lot of details & bits of foreshadowing, metaphors, etc. There's so much care & effort put into this movie.
What else can i say, it's Parasite.
2404. Yorum: The “going downstairs” moment is the closest I’ll probably ever get to experiencing something like Psycho’s shower scene or “I am your father” completely unspoiled.
2405. Yorum: 
2406. Yorum: yall ever go to a crazy ass birthday party??
2407. Yorum: the moment Parasite won Best Picture was probably the last moment i was truly happy
2408. Yorum: Yeah yeah I finally saw it. So was it as good as everyone says? Did it deserve the Oscar?
It didn't just deserve the Oscar, I think it should win all future Oscars and even retroactively win all past Oscars as well.
2409. Yorum: vai achando que pobre é otário
2410. Yorum: i’m in love with that pizza delivery girl
2411. Yorum: Tercera vez que la veo, cada vez me asombra más y más, nunca voy a olvidar en octubre 2019 cuando la ví con un amigo entrando totalmente a ciegas a la película, la vimos simplemente porque tenía críticas demasíado buenas, me voló la cabeza en todo sentido, todo el tiempo estuve con la boca abierta.
La ví con mi familia y mi mamá la comparó con Esperando a La Carroza. (?)
2412. Yorum: park sodam be my girlfriend
2413. Yorum: This is the film that really made me wanna delve into foreign cinema as this is truly one of the most perfect films I have ever seen, and on rewatch it’s even better and I noticed more things. Deserves all the acclaim and more in my opinion.
2414. Yorum: Impactante, astuta y genialmente filmada. Resulta tan incisiva como efectiva en su crítica social y su ruptura de esquemas a su paso.
Es frenética en su ritmo e impredecible en su rumbo y si algo derrocha es la brillantez de un prodigio direccional que sabe lo que quiere contar y que se rehusa a encasillarse en un único género cuando puede abordarlos todos y hacerlos cobrar sentido.
2415. Yorum: The film might be described as a dark, satirical family adventure with heaps of political subtext, though really it is a genre-mashing oddity, a unique product from the mind of Bong Joon Ho. It is not perfect filmmaking—narratively it is at moments contrived, and towards the end things get a bit messy and overloaded—, but it doesn’t have to be perfect filmmaking to deserve its reputation, or to be considered a masterpiece (which it is). Joon Ho brings a fresh imagination to cinema, mixing human moments and psychological elements together and creating captivating juxtapositions, narrative scenarios that inspire awe in their inventiveness, and consistently producing shots that are visually brilliant and have a genuine wow factor. Parasite offers a striking, visually rich, sublimely cinematic experience that has captured more hearts across the world than the foreign language barrier has ever allowed before. It is a rare film that is both great cinema and a cultural moment in cinema.
2416. Yorum: bong joon-ho‘s mind is too powerful i’m never getting over this
2417. Yorum: there is something so personal about watching ki-jung hold that peach up in the sunlight <3
2418. Yorum: 
2419. Yorum: I just need to accept that this is the best movie ever made.
2420. Yorum: Holy shit.
2421. Yorum: scavenger hunt #61 || april 2020
Watch a movie in which a language is spoken that you do not know a word of.
uhhh so finally watched this and the only bad thing I can say about it is, I WISH I HAD GONE TO SEE THIS IN THE THEATER!!!!
1. the blocking in this movie was masterful
2. every actor fucking killed it
3. it was funny, and even though I've seen a few bong movies I wasn't expecting this one to be funny
4. I want to watch this again, like tomorrow
5. also I somehow was able to go in spoiler free to this film and it was worth it
2422. Yorum: Try to go to the webpage of this movie and then look at the Letterboxd logo carefully...
2423. Yorum: Thanks to this film doing so well at the Oscars, it had a second run at our local theater so I was able to catch it today. And wow, it definitely lives up to the hype surrounding it. While I didn’t absolutely love it, it’s certainly an amazing film. If you somehow haven’t seen it yet, I highly recommend seeking it out.
2424. Yorum: BEST PICTURE WINNER PARASITE BY BEST DIRECTOR WINNER BONG JOON HO
2425. Yorum: Parasite – 9/10
I went in cold and it took me a little while to adjust to big screen subtitles and to figure out what the hell was going on. Once this film grabs you it doesn’t let go. The sharp turns it takes are utterly enthralling. It sets up complex dynamics in such a delicate and effortless way.
Initial reaction was that this was an 8/10 but it has stuck with me. The more you think about it the more impressive it is. Bong Joon Ho has you in the palm of his hands and guides through this labyrinth of tension and classism. Not my personal favourite movie from this awards season but it is a deserved winner.
2426. Yorum: mom and dad both said “what the fuck” at least five times each in a different tone of voice
2427. Yorum: When Bong Joon Ho won best director it was one of the greatest things to happen in Oscars history.
On a third rewatch I can solidly say this is a perfect movie. Very rarely does the Best Film of the year tale the top prize at the Oscars. Let me tell you this is deserving of all the praise.
The way Joon Ho plays with genre still amazes me because I spent this rewatch trying to understand his mind. The thought and direction to his world is as intense as "1917." His characters as rich as those in "Once Upon a Time... in Hollywood." Emotionally moving as "Little Women" and funnier than "Jojo Rabbit." This movie was the whole package this award season.
The production design stood out most this tome around. Nothing is random or out of place but furthers this story like no other. Honestly this is an artistic masterpiece.
Even my friend couldn't deny the brilliance of "Parasite." Anyone who needs that first step into Foreign Cinema should start with this.
2428. Yorum: How do you spell Oscar-winning masterpiece in Korean? Apparently, this is how:
오스카상을 수상한 걸작
What can I say that hasn’t already been said! It’s pretty fucking amazing! Yeah that’s right, I used the big one, which means I’m serious. I was genuinely worried going in that I’d find it boring or overrated, which would definitely isolate me from the community but NOPE!!! This is a gem that had me absorbed the whole time and I plan on adding it to my collection. I’m definitely going to watch more of Bong Joon-Ho’s filmography, as well as some more foreign films.
2429. Yorum: The first half I was like “Oh this is a different pace for a Korean film,” and then the second half made me go “oh heck yea this is why Korean cinema rocks.” My friends and I watched this over “To All the Boys: PS I love You” for our Valentine’s party.
2430. Yorum: Kim Ki-taek (played by Kang-Ho Song)
This man has focus. He is calm, collected, and calculated. From the very beginning we see him take advantage of the pizza box instructional video WHILE also taking advantage of the "free fumigation". The rest of the family is distracted by the awful smell and smoke filling their house, but Kim Ki-taek persists.
He sees things from 1000 feet up also. In the midst of success, failure, and desperation, he always is a voice of wisdom to his family. He is a proud father even when he knows that his parenting has fallen short at times.
His calculating and focusing are on full blast when he rehearses the script for how they will get the housekeeper kicked out. His ability to practice and take direction from his son are admirable. There is a mutual trust within the family. This trust is also very clear during the Ram-don scene. Everyone trusts Chung-Sook to get the meal ready, the kids to cleanup the drunken mess, and Chung-Sook trusts that all she needs to do is kick the ex-housekeeper and her husband will take care of it from there. Not once (at least on screen) does it cross her mind that Kim Ki-taek hasn't taken care of the now-limp body at the bottom of the kitchen stairs.
I think the trust his dad gives and receives is the thing Ki-woo respects the most about him. He makes this clear when telling his dad "I'll take care of everything" while they sleep on a gymnasium floor. The way I read this is "I will earn your trust and respect by resolving the basement issue."
Pieces of Kim Ki-taek's pride and confidence chip away slowly through the movie. This is the most impactful plot-line in the movie to me. Taking a very raw and extreme look at just how much the words people speak (or sniffs they take) to us or about us can drive us mad. When we feel like "cockroaches" (my hot take is that his rage in the living room was real but he repressed it by pretending it was all a joke) or bugs that people try to keep on the other side of the imaginary line, we can go crazy. Now, maybe we shouldn't take after what Kim Ki-taek does in the end, but maybe it can impact the way we treat others less fortunate than us and hopefully the way people more fortunate treat us.
2431. Yorum: 
2432. Yorum: Watched the B&W in cinemas. 
It’s always really nice to be exposed to a different cut or something just like this to freshen up a rewatch. 
The greyscale helped me appreciate the performances and composition. It helped me to pick up on the motif of flickering lights. 
The colour version is definitive and superior but it’s lovely to mix things up.
2433. Yorum: *inserts gif of bong giggling at his oscar*
2434. Yorum: -It's a chimpanzee, right?
-It's a self-portrait
RESPECT!
2435. Yorum: me @ parasite winning best picture amidst anti-east asian racism due to the current coronavirus outbreak: it’s so metaphorical! 
2436. Yorum: This truly is one of the greatest films of all time, and the Academy really did award the BEST film they nominated this year. This truly is a historical moment, and am so proud of everyone involved with this film. Parasite really shows how good cinema can be, and it’s utterly breathtaking.
2437. Yorum: YES BONG JOON-HO YES SOUTH KOREA!!!!!!!!!!! EAT!!!!!!!
THE!!!!!!!
RICH!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
(and we will)
🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉🎉
2438. Yorum: parasite winning best picture makes up for eminem getting a standing ovation
2439. Yorum: Best Picture Catch-Up, Part 4
  Parasite, is quite frankly, one of the most refreshingly creative films that I’ve seen in a long time. The most outstanding aspect is Bong Joon-Ho’s and Han Jin-Won’s impeccable script. Thoroughly layered with rich, exceptionally presented themes of “eating the rich”, and a masterful blend of more Chaplin-era comedy, every word spoken, every action taken, feels so utterly brilliant in its planning and presentation. Joon-Ho further extends his mastery to the direction of the film, as he moves the camera in such swift, effortless ways through the gorgeously designed sets, and houses. Jinmo Yang’s editing also stands out, with every transition, and cut feeling so fitting and natural.
    The brilliantly crafted story, follows two families, the Kims a family struck by poverty, and the Parks, a wealthy family. As the characters interact with eachother, what follows is an utterly unexpected, and gripping story. Each and every actor shines with magnificent performances, though most of all from Kang-ho Song, Yeo-jeong Jo, Woo-sik Choi and So-dam Park.
   Overall, Parasite shines in every area. It’s craft impeccable, and its execution even more so. Bong-Joon Ho’s film is a triumph in filmmaking, and will easily go down as one of the better films of the last decade.
9.6/10
2440. Yorum: Dear Academy,
 Make Parasite your Best Picture winner tonight you will make one bold, rare and brilliant moment that you so often fail to do. Overcome that 1 inch barrier and make the Oscars mean something again.
All the best
Your not-so-secret admirer x
2441. Yorum: ~fuck yeah~
This movie rules so hard and the fact that it’s a frontrunner for BP makes me really happy even though I don’t think it’s actually getting it...
I noticed a bunch more this time around too and just had a hell of a time in the theater with people who most likely haven’t seen it. It’s truly a treasure. 
I hope it wins.
2442. Yorum: “All you have to do, is go up the stairs”.
2443. Yorum: “Once you overcome the 1-inch-tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films.” 
i can’t believe we’re lucky enough to be alive at the same time as bong joon ho and get to witness the absolute excellence that is this film.
2444. Yorum: 
2445. Yorum: What I went to watch in 2020 - Film 6
An absolute masterpiece. It's about damn time Joon Ho enters the mainstream consciousness and I'm glad this film finally allowed that. Every scene is incredible and every moment has some significance that plays out beautifully. Hilariously I popped out for a wee and came back after the big tonal shift and it was like experiencing an entirely different film, not to say that was a bad thing if anything it was very welcome.
2446. Yorum: I’ve always been a fan of Korean films (mainly revenge and horror) and this one is no exception. I went into it totally blind without knowing a thing about it other than that it was the new Korean movie with a lot of buzz, and I’m glad for that. 
It’s a fantastic film. 
One thing I love about Korean films is the small hints of bizarre, almost surreal imagery and story elements that you never find in non-genre American movies. 
Parasite has a lot of this, and I really enjoyed that about it. The “ghost” scene and the storm scene in particular felt like they were just on the edge of the supernatural before pulling back into the reality of the film. 
Beyond that, Parasite is a genius take on class differences and poverty that really resonated with me. It has incredible moments of tension, anxiety and ultimately violence. It’s unbelievably original and powerful. 
Definitely not a film to miss.
2447. Yorum: Showed this to my family and they all went insane watching it and they all loved it. Mission: Successful.
2448. Yorum: After 6th watch I think I got all little details and all messages. I really love the climate change/rain message. He changes genres so smoothly and never bored me once on my 3rd watch in last week and a half. I just gotta say Bravo Bong!!!
2449. Yorum: Jessica. Only child. Illinois, Chicago.
-Kim Ki-jung
Somehow manages to get better every time you watch it.
---------------------------------------------------
Degrees of Separation from Last Movie:
-Parasite with Song Kang-ho
-Was in The Host with Scott Wilson
-Was in Hostiles with Christian Bale
-Was in Ford v Ferrari
2450. Yorum: This time I watched it in theatre with very annoying crowd. They laughed all the time but the reaction to second half of the movies was priceless (everyone was like wtf is happening). Oscars not nominating Kang-ho Song for best supporting actor is a disgrace.
Also, it deserved at least cinematography nomination but whatever.
2451. Yorum: Second viewing.
I really loved this movie the first time around, but it still wound up at #5 for the year for me. I think I was wrong. Maybe I was just being contrarian and wanted to be different and not say this film is the best of the year. But I think it just might be after all.
For the first viewing, I went in as cold as possible. I knew the plot involved two families. i knew that the film focused on class struggles. That's about it. So for that viewing, I was focused on the plot and kind of caught up in the "mystery" or, basically, wondered where it would all end up.
A second viewing, at least for me, was a much different, deeper experience. I remembered every plot detail pretty well (it's only been a couple of months since my first viewing). I knew what was going to happen. So this time I was able to focus more on the characters and their motivations, as well as what exactly this film has to say about class.
I'll give one specific example from the film and how it relates to me personally. Near the end of the film, there is a torrential rain storm. Maybe. It feels like an apocalyptic event in some areas of the city. At the Park's home, its raining hard, it causes some disruption in the lives of the Parks (they have to cancel their camping trip because that area is too wet for camping). But the son is still able to pitch a tent in the backyard. Meanwhile, other areas of the city are flooded. Lives are totally disrupted. Residents are scrambling to save personal effects and are forced to find shelter for the night.
So here is the part I really want to write about. The Parks decide to throw an impromptu birthday party for their son. Again, their day to day life was not affected. I'm sure their friend's lives were not affected by the storm. We do not hear any regrets to the invitation such as, "I can't come because I am bailing water out of my house right now". It's just another Saturday to them. At one point (and I missed this line on the first viewing), Mrs. Park says on the phone to a friend what a blessing the rain was. A blessing. Meanwhile, Mr. Kim is having to drive her around listening to her conversation while thinking about how his only life is in even more shambles now than it was at the beginning of the film.
I believe that it is human nature to care much more about events that directly affect yourself and/or your family. Before we condemn the Parks too much, we should probably take a look in the mirror first, starting with myself. Currently, Australia is on fire. And people I know are like "That's a shame". But, as a society, we are still having birthday parties and getting ready for the Super Bowl and arguing about diversity among Oscar nominees. That example is on a macro-level, but there are people we pass every day desperately trying to keep their life together while we carry on our mundane schedule. And we as individuals cannot be expected to do everything, but we can do something to help people (besides pay them for services rendered and think that is doing a great deed).
So, yeah, that's what I thought after watching Parasite again. I could watch it again right now. The best cinema is that which might make an impact on a belief system. Parasite has that power if we allow it to. Plus it's entertaining as hell. Too bad so many people I know refuse to overcome that obstacle of 1 inch subtitles.
2452. Yorum: jesus fucking christ. I know I’m late, but if you’re one of the few people who hasn’t yet seen this masterpiece, go into it completely blind, and feel the world shift under you.
2453. Yorum: that a film can go from a line as wildly hilarious and surprising as “don’t fucking call me sis, you filthy bitch!” to one as heartbreakingly complex and poignant as “take care until then”, while hitting every single beat in the meantime.... i don’t know a better film
2454. Yorum: Is this overrated like some say? I don’t think so. Parasite is a phenomenal film. Such a brilliant examination of how we justify our actions and ultimately tear each other apart. Beautiful direction, immaculate editing, incredibly sharp dialogue, and highly memorable performances. This is a film I can tell will stay with me in the best way possible. I'll definitely be rewatching it many times in the future. This is the film of the year for me and one of the best of the decade. Absolutely loved it.
2455. Yorum: Heard so many good things and that it was a must see! Definitely right! What a brilliant masterpiece. A well thoughtout together piece by piece work of art. A mind fuck for sure, you have no idea what to expect and bam it keeps throwing surprises at you. A exceptional joyful thrill ride. I had so many theories but when it all came down to what was really going on, blew my mind. I loved it.
2456. Yorum: so metaphorical
2457. Yorum: 
2458. Yorum: all you’ll have to do... is walk up the stairs.
2459. Yorum: Parasite is a masterful film, featuring a tight script and direction from Bong Joon-ho. This dark dive into class never feels didactic; rather, it synthesizes the breezy caper its telling with the horrors that lurk under society's institution. Everyone is human despite how inhuman the upper class may be, and the deep empathy that follows the protagonists as they do truly despicable things makes this a journey well worth taking.
The ensemble is excellent all-around; there's highlights, to be certain (Song Kang-ho holds the film together as the defacto lead, having a subtle arc that mostly plays out through his mannerisms; Lee Jung-eun and Cho Yeo-jeong have showstealing supporting roles), but for the most part, the whole film is marvelous due to everyone being compelling on screen. This might be due that fantastic script, which always takes the film into interesting directions as the stylized fun leads to stark reality.
Technically, this is astounding too. Bong's control of the film is immaculate, feeling as spectacular as the mansion the film takes place in. The production design there is plenty impressive, as the house becomes a character onto the film itself. Jeong's original score, Hong's cinematography and Yang's editing all work in tandem with the actors and direction to make this the masterpiece it is; not one element is weak and it's truly magnificent in every sense.
Parasite is an essential film for 2019, something that examines class and the truly ugly side of complicity. It's also a genuinely entertaining thriller, with plenty of humor and charismatic characters that would make one enjoy it as a purely fun movie. It's a tight balancing act, but Bong pulls it off entirely. Parasite lives up to the hype and then some, being an absolutely phenomenal and wholly memorable film.
2460. Yorum: i hope i write a movie half as good as this one day holy fuck that was one of the best movies of the century
2461. Yorum: Proof that Cannes>Venice!
2462. Yorum: Aside from a tonally dissonant finale and an ending that leaves a few too many logistical questions, this absolutely lives up to the hype and immediately slots as one of 2019’s finest. Do NOT spend your hard earned cash on the insomnia cure that was “Doctor Sleep” and go see this instead. Four and a half stars.

Added to: Favorite Foreign Films
2463. Yorum: Once in a while, there comes a film that defines the entire decade and Bong Joon-ho's Palme D'or winner Parasite is the perfect way to end this decade. An engrossing genre bender about class warfare. This film is PERFECT! 
2464. Yorum: I’m a monster and have seen this a third time. That’s enough for now — maybe again when it’s out on Blu-ray or something.
My goal has been to introduce Parasite to as many people in my network and social groups as I can — I’ve had people at work tell me they’ve watched it and they’ve raved about it. A couple of my friends tonight didn’t know what to do, so I suggested Parasite. I’m glad they’ve taken me up on it.
This time around, I pretty much filled in every gap I’ve had. Paid super close attention to the dialogue and subtitles. Every loose end (sort of) tied for me. The subtleties and nuances that separate but also pull together each character.
I love it. For the sake of my “love” of this movie, definitely need to take a break. Will be rooting for this one to take home some trophies (not that those really matter, in the grand scheme of things).
If you want to see more of my thoughts from earlier viewings, check out:
boxd.it/Oy8Bd (Round 1, not much to read)
boxd.it/QfjQj (Round 2, the one I’d suggest)
2465. Yorum: “there's no need for a plan. you can't go wrong with no plans. we don't need to make a plan for anything. it doesn't matter what will happen next.”
whew. i’ve been trying to process this film for a minute. it’s like the ultimate “where is this going?” movie. and once you think “that’s where we’re going” it changes, the destination gets updated, and you realize you’re headed somewhere else entirely. the less you know going into this film, the greater of an impact it will have on you. technically, the set design and lighting are top notch. the script is so sprawling and yet incredibly tight. everything is meaningful and there’s never a dull moment; the pacing is literally perfect. the climax is everything i love about korean cinema. the socioeconomic commentary in Parasite is also much welcomed. it shows us two families with very different lifestyles, stakes, and ambitions. and no one is a caricature. there are no heroes or villains in this film. the rich are oblivious to their sins; the poor do what they need to in order to survive. it helps you see the rich and poor from their respective vantage points and throughout the course of this film they’re both victimized in different ways. this movie doesn’t demonize or sanctify any individual or class. instead it shows how broken society is by giving each individual their deserved complexity. i cannot say enough about how technically solid this film is and the control that Bong has over every single second of this picture enables his piercing commentary to leap out of the frame. can’t wait to watch it again and see even more of its intricate themes.
2466. Yorum: You either die trying to eat the rich or you live long enough to see yourself eat a trauma cake.
2467. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all."
Winner of the Palme d'Or as well as the first foreign film to ever win Best Picture, PARASITE is a beautiful and clever film that almost defies any genre.
In South Korea, the Kim family live in poverty in a shabby subterranean apartment, searching for gigs and small cons to make money. The Kim family strike me a bit as a lighthearted version of the Thenardiers from LES MISERABLES; they're a family who function like a thieving crew. They show each other camaraderie more than traditional familial love; the kids use profanity casually around the parents, who in turn scheme openly around the kids.
The story makes a point of modernity and Americanization being an everyday part of Korean culture; the kids use the Anglicized names Kevin and Jessica, everyone talks about going abroad to foreign places like "Chicago" with great reverence, and lives revolve so much around cell phones, text messages, and access to WiFi.
Through forgery, Kevin is hired as an English tutor by the wealthy Park family, and in the style of a heist movie, is able to get every member of his family all hired by the Parks in different functions using manipulations, without the Parks even realizing that all their servants are related. The peach-fuzz montage, done in a classic heist movie style, is one of the film's most memorable highlights.
This first half of the movie feels like a light comedy; we enjoy watching a good con and seeing the Kim family succeed as underdogs. On top of this, the Park family, especially Mrs. Park, are so comically gullible and out of touch to even know what's going on. We're happy that the Kims have gotten ahead, and the Parks are not really being victimized.
It's easy for us to generalize "the rich are evil and the poor are misunderstood underdogs," but this isn't a Frank Capra film and things don't turn out to be so black and white. When the Parks leave for a camping trip, the Kims invade their house, and this is when the dynamic begins to shift. Now having a mansion to themselves, they no longer feel like sympathetic underdogs; they are gluttons who bask in luxurious decadence and alcohol.
This is an observation I've often noticed in the real world: as much as people enjoy proclaiming they hate the rich, they constantly daydream about being rich themselves and living that same hedonistic lifestyle they resent others for having.
Then the second half of the film comes, and the story takes a sharp Kafka-esque turn. Through a bizarre turn of events that border on bedroom farce, it turns out there's another couple who are also living as parasites off the Park family. The Gooks and Kims could easily continue to work together, which is even suggested, but both sides are greedy and each continue to get the upper-hand on one another, even both humiliating the other for no real reason. Things soon escalate, going from MEET THE FOCKERS-style farce before ultimately erupting with heightened Tarantino-style violence.
What's most interesting about this latter half is that it challenges us as to who to root for. Neither of the three families is really in the right; both the Kims and Gooks are leeching off others, while the Parks begin to show their hidden classism and entitlement that wasn't as evident in the first half. Mrs. Park's oblivious, aloof, and ditzy personality made her funny in the first half, but both her and her husband become obnoxious snobs in the second half who throw their son's birthday party as if it is inside a bubble, cut off from the world, without any awareness that people around them had to wade through sewage the night before. They have no problem using others; they are a different kind of parasites.
The violent climax, in which all three families lose in some way, is a symptom of a societal ill; the problem isn't really money or poverty as it is the lack of community or any communal environment. Families do not act like families, neighbors do not act like neighbors, and no one works together. In the end, the mansion stands as a symbol of class while its hidden bunker is a symbol of pennants.
All of this is expertly filmed, with Bong Joon-ho making full use of the widescreen format, making the mansion very much a character in the film, creating suspense. It's hard not to compare this film to OLDBOY, another Korean film. Both films have a certain manga-feel in their action scenes, how they contrast their violence with operatic waltzes, taking moments of dark humor and having callbacks to them later with moments of pathos.
The only thing that keeps PARASITE from being a masterpiece to me is that some of its humor feels a little overly-silly. In particular, there's a running joke about how the Kim family "smells bad" to the Parks. I get that this is meant to show the Parks' snobbishness and disgust, but it feels a bit heavy-handed and is repeated too many times.
PARASITE is deceptively simple filmmaking, entertaining and skillfully-crafted. The entire cast is great, and it bounces from satire to dark drama to morality tale. The human race is a species of parasites, and greed and cruelty manifest in all of us, indiscriminately of class.
2468. Yorum: watch it a second time yall i promise this is one of those movies that is a whole different experience when you’re familiar with the plot twists/climax
2469. Yorum: The most exciting feeling during a movie is having no idea what will happen next.
2470. Yorum: 
2471. Yorum: Naja ok bleibt nichts anderes Übrig als Allen Recht zu geben.
Jaja ihr hattet Recht. Was hier kreiert wurde ist warhaftig Ein
M-E-I-S-T-E-R-W-E-R-K
Handwerklich perfekt.
Story perfekt
Schauspiel Oscarverdächtig.
Fazit: ab ins Kino!! Unbedingt!!
2472. Yorum: to be honest this film is such a damn landmark... its a masterpiece in every sense of the word, and i admittedly do throw that term around a lot in reference to films that i personally love but i just dont think there is any way someone can see this as any less masterful than it is. there is also no way in hell it can be topped as my favorite of the year; it snuck up on me and left me breathless.
“all you’ll need to do is walk up the stairs.”
2473. Yorum: E se o filme começa como uma comédia, apostando nos truques e trapaças dos Kim, logo se desdobra para o horror e para o drama, as únicas formas possíveis para lidar com a injustiça e o descaso. O drama é usado como possibilidade de comentário político, mas o terror como o retrato da violência como única possibilidade para se ter uma resposta pronta para a desigualdade social estrutural e estruturante. Catártico e ao mesmo tempo anticlimático, Parasita instiga uma reflexão acerca da estratificação e da quase impossibilidade de deslocamentos entre classes sem que haja uma brusca ruptura no tecido social.
Completo em: estantedasala.com/43a-mostra-de-sao-paulo-parasita/
2474. Yorum: Still so impressed by how effortless, emotional and truly surprising this is. They’re all feelings we don’t often experience at once when we go to the movies — but when we do, it’s hard to deny something special is going on.  Bong doesn’t treat them as mutually exclusive to one another either; his greatest magic trick is that they complement each other all too well, feeding off one another, not unlike a host and its parasite.
Last night, I also learned that Bong was gifted a bong from a friend, and I feel like my life is complete now.
2475. Yorum: Start etching Parasite on that Best International Feature Film award for next year’s Oscars. My only real issue was it’s pacing but everything else that most of Film Twitter has been saying about this movie was as advertised. 
DON’T SEE THE TRAILER, not knowing anything about Parasite makes the experience even better
2476. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned."
It’s a MASTERPIECE, I tell ya.
A MASTERPIECE.
I plan on watching it again when it officially releases in the U.S. in theaters, and will write a better review once I do. But I implore you not to miss out when it rolls into your area.
For the people in the back who may not have heard me...
A MASTERPIECE!
2477. Yorum: Certainly will need a rewatch but what the fuck did I watch?, it was extremely immersive, and the acting was great, the cinematography was pretty great and interesting and the score was probably the best thing about the technical aspects, but this is one of the most unpredictable films I have seen, I never knew where it was going and it always kept me interested, and besides a few minor pacing issues, the film is expertly crafted, very well written and serves extremely impressive and engaging experience 
I’m still processing what I watched
2478. Yorum: Escenas de la Lucha de Clases en Corea del Sur
Mucho tienen que cambiar las cosas para que esta no termine siendo la mejor película del año.
2479. Yorum: going into this not knowing what to expect was an EXPERIENCE and the best way... it went from simple to insane very quick and i loved that about it. there wasn’t a moment while watching where i wasn’t interested or entertained, and that’s exactly what a film like this should be
2480. Yorum: FUCKING IMMACULATE. so smart, tightly wound, and thoroughly unpredictable. i can’t count how many times i gasped and clutched at my chest in shock, and yet, every twist and turn is laden with meaning. it’s one of my favorite aspects of joon-ho’s films; the boldness that tinges them without any scene ever feeling inconsequential. shock-value unheard of, dialogue sharp as knives with the visuals to match. it’s literally perfect. nothing is going to top this for me in 2019 and i have absolutely no problem with that. bong joon-ho i owe you my life.
2481. Yorum: this is the only movie to ever exist, all other films are cancelled, yes i’m correct and no, i don’t take any criticism
2482. Yorum: about to change every single rating of every single movie i've ever rated to adjust to the fact that i have seen this MASTERPIECE HELLO???? CINEMA has arrived!!! THE CLIMAX!!! MY ANXIETYYYYY!!!!!!!! IM FUCKING LOSING IT BONG JOON HOOOOO MY GOD MY SCALPPPPP!!! full offence but i will literally never be watching a hollywood movie ever again
2483. Yorum: 
2484. Yorum: The reign of Cum Peach from "Call Me By Your Name (2017)" is over. Killer Peach from "Parasite (2019)" is the superior peach!
The Peach is dead. Long live the Peach!
2485. Yorum: THE ENDIND WAS LIKE....
2486. Yorum: queria cair e bater a cabeça pra poder assistir esse filme como se fosse a primeira vez.
parasita é uma experiência única, nem assistindo ele pela tv dublado como os incas atrapalhou isso, o melhor da sua década!
2487. Yorum: I hate this movie because it made me pee myself
2488. Yorum: I’m Very late to seeing this but it did not let down AT ALL WOW
2489. Yorum: Damn. This movie is absolute "Perfection." It's so deep, complex, and it blends Drama, Comedy, and Thriller together really well. And damn, everything about this movie is pure "Perfection." The Cinematography, The Writing, Acting, Drama, Visuals, Social Commentary, absolute "Perfection." Overall, Go watch this movie. It definitely deserves it's 6 Oscars. Nothing but "Perfection." MUST WATCH!
2490. Yorum: I remember watching this like a year ago but I don't really remember anything from it, I just remember it was good but not amazing. Really glad I watched it again cause Hoe Lee fuck, this was friggen amazing. Easy my favorite of 2019 now and one of my all time favorites.
2491. Yorum: "They say a ghost in the house brings wealth..."
This is now my third watch of Parasite (my brother has been wanting to watch it since the Oscars and we finally got to it) and I hoped that by a third viewing I would have it all figured out and I could write something profound about the themes of this movie. But...when it ended, I still felt like I was still just beginning to put the pieces of the puzzle together. I think that's a great strength of Parasite, though its themes are clear nearly from the outset (it's no effort to know this is a film concerned with class and capitalism) and though the actions of nearly every character are condemnable on some level it is not a film that condemns, and even when it gets close to it doesn't do so without considering the wider picture, the world Parasite is set in (and by extension our own world). When my brother turned to me and asked me "so who's the parasite? What do you think the metaphor is?" I didn't have an answer for him. The best I can muster besides a lazy "it's complicated" is that it all depends on the point of view you take. If money or food is the nutrient the parasite is feeding on then one could argue the Kim family or Geun-se is the parasite, but if labor is the nutrient the parasite is feeding on then the Park family is the parasite, particularly Mrs. Park "leeching" off the labor of her housekeepers and drivers (the scene where she talks on the phone while Mr. Kim is stuck bagging her items for her stands out in particular). It's too easy (and boring) to just say this family is bad or that family is bad. These simultaneous points of view for the central metaphor are contradictory but coexist entirely intentionally, urging the audience to question who is usually seen as a parasite on society (my mind immediately jumps to the Reagan-era stereotype of the 'welfare queen' as an example of the usual classist parasite metaphor in political action, a stereotype that has had serious ramifications since its horrible inception).
And yet I do wonder if my impressions during my first watch, where I was engrossed until the twist, holds some water, if the reason I struggle to write about this film on a deeper level is because it is a little too vacant in its second (and more violent) half. I like the twist and I'm deeply impressed by how little knowing the twist affects enjoyment of the film on rewatches, but it does lose focus of some of the most interesting ideas of the first half of the film, for example jobs as an arbitrarily finite resource. But at the same time the second half of the film is much stronger visually than the first half, and film is a visual medium. One of the most memorable and powerful images of the film is the juxtaposition between the consequences of rain for the Park family and for the Kim family, and the visual of the Kim's descent back to their semi-basement apartment is magnetic (in my first review I mentioned how it echoes the gorgeous concluding cinematography of Force of Evil and it makes me wonder how these films would reveal another level of meaning in conversation with one another).
I guess what I am trying to say is Parasite still baffles me like it did the first time I watched it and I'm still grappling with it over a year later.
2492. Yorum: Idk. I really think this film is the only one I’ve ever seen that I could say is perfect in every aspect. Like there isn’t a single crack or blemish in this thing. It’s not my #1 favorite film ever, but I can’t think of anything that’s really better on a technical level. It’s just so exciting and perfectly paced, I watched it with my dad this time and even he loved it. In fact I don’t know anyone who didn’t love it. There’s a reason this is in my top 20 films, it’s such a wonderful experience and I’d go so far as to say it’s the best film of the last decade, 
Pretty awesome honestly.
2493. Yorum: Tis movy ies badd. Itt dosnt hav minions orr norm of da north.
2494. Yorum: Ive been wanting to watch this for so long it’s not even funny. I have a rule about not giving films 5 stars on my first viewing because I try to keep that rating for films that are nearly perfect in my eyes or an all time favorite of mine. Once I watch this film again I will be able to decide if it’s worth that extra bump up to 5 stars. With that being said I thought this film was absolutely brilliant. It was hyped beyond belief and after the best picture win I figured it must be something special and oh boy is that true. Bong Joon-ho is a genius when it comes to directing and it’s very well acted to, but I think what really had me interested was the story involving the differences in class and also the mounding tension that was building throughout. This is obviously a film that you have to give your undivided attention to due to the fact that it’s in Korean, which is the aspect of it that I was the most worried about going into it. But I did not find it difficult at all to stay focused because this film is so engaging and I loved it till the last second. The climax is fantastic and the way that they built up to it was perfect. One thing I couldn’t stop thinking about during the whole film is how much I liked the name of the film. About half way through I realized why it was actually called that and I don’t think it could possibly fit any better. I also really like the movie poster because it’s so simple, but says a lot at the same time. I really just love everything about this movie and I’m happy to say it deserves all the praise it has gotten.
2495. Yorum: Watched with Anonymous Friend, Anonymous Friend and Voldemort(?).
Sorry, folks, but I still don't think this is a perfect film; in fact, some of it is damn sloppy, which annoys the heck out of me.
What's good is great, and that's about 75%.
While most of the things that annoyed me before annoyed me even more, what I liked before I also liked even more. It's beautifully shot, but in a really understated fashion that's easy to miss. The score also could go easily unnoticed, but it's just gorgeous, eclectically traversing the planes of tension, darkness and playful realism.
This time around I was able to appreciate just how layered the film is, and how well set up some of the themes are. I honestly think that for the most part Parasite works so well, which is why it bothers me so that it doesn't fully satiate. The tonal whiplash was much less of an issue this time round, likely because I knew what I was getting going in. There is a fine layer of black, ironic humour that lines the tragic climax which, although treading the line between solid ground and cavernous drop, just about balances.
The real criminal here, which has only become more of a frustration with a second viewing, is the messy, convoluted way in which the film is resolved. Don't get me wrong, I love the ending itself: the rounding off of the "plan" thematic, the visual presentation of how things might play out ideally, before bringing us right back to where things are now; leaving us with no real certainty as to what exactly might transpire in the days, months, years to come. What I don't like is the execution and the finer details, which are probably easier to talk about in bulleted form:

- I mentioned last time, but overdubbed narration comes across as lazy writing if not previously established as a part of the film's narrative arson. Not only does Parasite commit the crime of introducing this for ease of wrapping things up for the audience, but it's made worse due to the fact that the film is not specifically from this character's perspective. We are flies on several walls, and the film has not given us a clear indication that this is the son's story. So you have the jarring element of having overdubbed narration suddenly present, along with a sudden decision to keep things from a single person's perspective. To me this feels no different from writing a novel in 3rd person for the entire book, only to switch to 1st person in the final chapter. I don't think it's controversial to call that bad writing.
- Second, there is no way the father wrote a letter that long, translated it into Morse Code and committed to communicating it every day in the vain hope that it would someday get read. Even if it did, how would he know it was received? How long would he be sending that message for? And what are the chances, not only of it getting picked up, but that it would get picked up by his son? And why make it sheets of information long, which would be harder to pick up due to the light pattern being less noticeably repetitive? Why not go with a simple message like "it's dad. I'm safe". That's all you need. It's much more practical.
- Just to clarify, I have no issues with the overdub voice narration that comes from reading a letter - that part is fine. I do however have the question of how on earth the son communicates his letter to his father. He can only see the lights; he has no way of sending a return message.
- Finally, how the hell is this dude alive? He had a massive rock flung down onto his head by a grown man - twice! His skull should be Ram-don; at the very least he should be a vegetable.

Honestly, when Parasite is good it's so good, and with a bit more thought the ending could have been wrapped up so much more satisfyingly. So why, I ask.
Why.
Why.
Why.
2496. Yorum: 
2497. Yorum: What a deserved hype about the movie is after the Oscars. Or even before the Oscars here on letterboxd. 
Secound view finally in the home cinema after they were too stupid to bring this masterpiece earlier in.. with many friends and my dad which was real great to show him such an new masterpiece and he really enjoyed it like everyone. Absolute perfect movie from start till the end with only two little things which aren’t great for me. 
Both happened in the basement and both are in my opinion a bit horror film problems. First scene is when the stone felt down and secound when the whole family felt down. These two things aren’t really well made because in so situations I don’t think such things will happen but ok. Don’t really annoyed me to appreciate this masterpiece again that much. 
Would go as far to call it as fourth best movie of the century until now and also I must clear the question if it’s better than The Godfather which absolutely isn’t the fall. 
I will never forget the first watch of this in Australia and what Memories this brings back in a rewatch. Great time thx bong joon ho for your greatness.
2498. Yorum: I do really love this, maybe not quite as much as the majority, but the success this film has achieved both critically and commercially across all levels is inspiringly unprecedented. And when you have a scene as elementally impactful as the flood sequence...well then you deserve it all
2499. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho films in two words;
Dirty Claustrophobia
2500. Yorum: saw this on a date(?) with my roommate/newly budding crush and he wouldn’t stop saying “dude, this is so symbolic” every five minutes ANYWAYS SHIT WAS OFF THE RAILS THIS DESERVES LITERALLY EVERY OSCAR AVAILABLE

update: it was *not* a date
2501. Yorum: As it draws us in its motives of twists, turns, excitement and thrills, we are encouraged to peel back the surface, revealing the ugliness that sits beneath. The artifice that lingers within the characters and their dynamics in the narrative correlate with their country’s current state of affairs. Bong displays the human endurance of a family forced to create their own opportunities in order for them to stay afloat.
feedingbrett.wordpress.com/2019/12/08/peaches-and-rocks-the-economic-divide-of-parasite/
This third entry into my essay series is on Parasite. With each passing viewing, it continues to fascinate me in its exploration of class dynamics and division.
I know it is taking me a while to develop these write-ups, but it has been a bit hard to find the time due to my new role at work. I do hope you would enjoy this one.
2502. Yorum: no words just 5 stars
2503. Yorum: Perfect.
I haven't seen a movie build in such a way, yet so successfully has the audience firmly in it's grip.
Socially relevant, hilarious, horrifying, complex and heartbreaking. Just brilliant.
This is like Trickle Down: The Movie, but what is trickling down is blood.
2504. Yorum: Knowing the trajectory does severely impact it and some things that seemed genius at first seem like flaws now. Still absolutely masterful in every technical aspect and darkly humorous in all the best ways.
2505. Yorum: 10+ - The ultimate commentary on class conflicts and struggles, Bong Joon-ho's Parasite does not confine to typical genre conventions, making the film even more thrilling and exciting and solidifying it as one of decade's best.
Enjoyment: 5+/5 | Quality: 5+/5
No amount of words I can write that will do this film justice. How do I even begin?
Upon my fourth? viewing of this masterpiece, first time on the big screen, Parasite offers more than just two hours of entertainment. It offers a very personal commentary on the class system and society with a budget of a blockbuster. Much like other Bong Joon-ho's films, the film exists within its own genre, redefining what it means to be a genre-bender with such ease that it is seamless. Weaving between dark comedy, family drama, thriller and even with a touch horror, Bong subverts the audience's expectations as we watch the story unfolds in front of our own eyes like a magic trick. Stylish, exciting and simply jaw-droppingly phenomenal, Parasite begs the audience for multiple viewings, with each one better than the last, making the film one of 2019 best and surely earning a spot in my top 10 of all timers.
2506. Yorum: Do you ever get to that point where you start to get kind of sick of movies? You're watching so many, talking about them all the time with friends/co-workers, writing about them, and working within the film industry yourself (to a small extent) that you start to wonder do I even like movies anymore? I've been a bit in that rut lately, and this was the cure. It's a full blown, completely engaging masterpiece that reminded me why I love movies and what they can do and make me feel on an emotional, mental, and physical level.
I'm left rattled in just about every way. I haven't been this shocked and satisfied in so long.
2507. Yorum: this is the reason why I'm fucking scared of basements
2508. Yorum: my second time seeing this incredible film and i still can’t manage to find words to describe how the ending makes me feel.
it manages to affect its viewer so strongly, seeing the last few seconds and realizing everything feels like a punch to the face.
i am, once again, at a complete loss of words. 
absolute perfection. i have never seen anything like this.
a masterpiece.
2509. Yorum: 
2510. Yorum: It is done. Bong has created an all time classic, which not only ranks as his best film, but lies among the best Korean films of all time. This is genius, genius film-making. If anyone ever complains about contemporary cinema being unoriginal, just tell them to watch Parasite.
It’s not only absolutely hilarious, unpredictable and surprisingly heartbreaking, but also a sealed testament to what makes films so wonderful by packing in every cinematic element possible and making it work flawlessly. Perfect in almost every conceivable way, apart from the fact that the ending overstays it’s welcome by a few minutes; but this is just a minor negative in an otherwise sublime film.
2511. Yorum: yes i'm 6 years late i regret putting this off for so long
completely unexpected!!
WHATTHEFUCK?
2512. Yorum: no se muy bien que opinar me veré una análisis y volveré
ya volví, bueno ya lo sabia pero odio a los pijos y el como la lucha más que con los pijos es entre la misma clase trabajadora pues muy real que te voy a decir
2513. Yorum: I got to show Walker Parasite for the first time tonight and it was a pretty great experience. 
Before you read this review I already wrote a better review that got like two likes so read this one first! 
For some reason I felt the emotional weight much stronger on this watch than I did before. There is something so crushingly hopeless about the end. Every time I watch this I love it more!
Also if you want to read a phenomenal and more in depth review on this go read this random review I found!
2514. Yorum: This is a fucking masterpiece!
2515. Yorum: você sabe o que é melhor do que ter um plano? não ter plano algum. nada pode dar errado se você não tiver planos.
o filme com a maior crítica social do mundo (na minha opinião), com certeza irei ficar muito tempo pensando nesse filme.
2516. Yorum: Parasite is still one of best foreign movies that I ever saw and I doubt something will change about it in a near future .
Maybe I wasnt in a wow feeling , like during first two watches but still all I can say is how Parasite is one really well made piece of work that has some great storytelling, acting ,twists and top of all that a good dark humor.
Direction was top notch to while script is one of most realistic to real world that I ever saw.
Parasite is one inspiring work.
2517. Yorum: Joker origin story
“Why won’t he stop laughing”
2518. Yorum: How does one write this?
2019 was a different breed for film man
2519. Yorum: literally the only movie ever
2520. Yorum: Another Bong hit.
2521. Yorum: backyard scene is gonna haunt me forever but jesus this was good
2522. Yorum: 
2523. Yorum: "Ki-woo, you know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. No plan. You know why? If you make a plan, life never works out that way."
Bong Joon-ho é um artista quando a conversa é sociedade atual.
Tive que fazer uma pausa de 7 dias para poder escrever essa review, visto toda a complexidade narrativa dessa obra, é díficil digerir rapidamente.
Não existe nada melhor do que você ir assistir um filme sem saber do que esperar dele, sem saber até mesmo qual gênero está prestes a assistir, como foi meu caso com Parasite, aqui vemos o Bong Joon-ho construir uma crítica social em torno de diversos gêneros, mas o charme de verdade está EM COMO ele escolheu contar essa história.
De início, acompanhamos uma família pobre vivendo na periferia da Coreia, uma família em que apesar dos problemas, aparenta ser bastante unida e precisa fazer de tudo para sobreviver. Vemos uma trama divertida de comédia obscura, ao mesmo tempo que a obra aborda e desenvolve dos temas de sobrevivência e a estrutura de classes, comentando a todo instante sobre como a diferença de privilégio e riqueza afeta as pessoas.
Um excelente exemplo — e que é um ápice da obra pra mim, é a sequência da chuva e posteriormente a mulher da classe alta agradecendo pela tal chuva da noite anterior, mas que acabou afetando de forma bruta a periferia da classe mais pobre e nada da classe mais alta.
Vemos essa diferença na obra a todo instante, como o fato da casa da família pobre ser até mesmo abaixo da rua; para eles chegarem na casa da família rica tem que enfrentar diversas escadas para cima, insinuando a classe "mais alta" e principalmente o fato da chuva ter destruído tudo das famílias da periferia e nada da casa da classe alta.
Uma obra maravilhosa que retrata de forma crua uma crítica socioeconômica, onde apesar de todas as desigualdades sociais, somos todos iguais, seres-humanos sujos, corrosivos e preconceituosos que lutam contra um sistema diariamente.
Dito isso, Parasite está longe de qualquer gênero de terror, comédia e suspense. É o retrato de um sistema em meio a caoticidade da luta diária de uma família pobre lutando para sobreviver contra uma família rica e preconceituosa. Uma sociedade capitalista onde a diferença de riqueza é grande o suficiente para que os que estão mais embaixo não tenha como escapar e são essencialmente forçados a sobreviver com a dos outros.
2524. Yorum: WDYT?
2525. Yorum: i guess crazy rich asians took a dark turn..
2526. Yorum: Day 16 of watching films from @Soluko’s GREATEST OF ALL TIME LIST.
(NO WAY THAT JUST  HAPPENED)
This film just plays with your head. And there’s always something crazy going on and you just don’t know how to react because how surprising/unexpected those things are. 
“The heart doesn’t lie” 
This was my first Bong Joon-ho film and he didn’t disappoint. I Can’t wait to watch more of his films. This was one of my most anticipated film on the list and I’m so glad I watched it.
This is the ultimate comfort movie. I could literally watch this everyday and I wouldn’t get tired of it. 
“If you make a plan, life never works out that way”  
Shout out to the writers for this incredible story 
And for creating amazing characters. 
The shift in this film needs to be studied. Because how did this go from a family looking for jobs and money to people killing each other. That’s just crazy to me. 
I now know why this film won an Oscar. Literally Deserved it. 
“She may look like a sheep, but inside she’s a fox” 

This movie didn’t even feel like it was 2hrs cause it’s so good. This movie has one the best plot twists ever I and I love it. 
Love the score. Sounds great throughout the whole movie. And in different situations the characters find themselves in. 
The cinematography goes crazy. The pacing is also pretty good. 
This one is definitely going in my top 4. I see why people love this film. Definitely watch this if you haven’t. 
Plot: 10/10
Cinematography : 9/10
Pacing: 8.4/10
Story: 10/10 
Characters: 9.3/10
Score: 9.8/10
Overall Rating: 10/10
2527. Yorum: "They are rich but still nice"
"They are nice because they are rich"
Man, I have no words for this film! Least I can say is it’s a bloody masterpiece! It’s been a long time since a movie has gripped me into the story and I believe every thing in this movie is really happening! I had so much tension when the family almost got caught a lot of times, particularly when the family was hiding under couch, I was so anxious as it was made to look so convincing! I also love how the director clearly states the different levels of class in this film, and going from the filthy streets into the mansion clearly states a difference. And when the family goes downstairs to the under-ground bunker, it kind of feels like a horror movie! Anyways I absolutely loved this film and I’m going to watch this film again!!!
2528. Yorum: I'm really late to review this film
There are many moral messages that can be taken in this film.
This film exceeded my expectations.
The plot of the film is very interesting and the plot twists are very unexpected and the cinematography is so very good that this film won 4 awards from Oscars
The film really depicts real life with a simple method of shooting tools, making this film even more interesting to watch.
very very recommendation for a good film like this with a pretty good effect and supported by the very maximum cast in playing the character.

5 thumbs up for Bong Joon-ho he was inspired to make this film because he had experienced hardships.
I hope I can find good films to watch like parasit

and the plot of this film is very difficult to guess so that it makes this film very good and makes people curious
as well as the ending of this film I didn't think that the ending of this film was very good

this is enough Thank you.
2529. Yorum: I enjoyed this even more on the rewatch. It was fun watching it with my son, him experiencing it for the first time somehow knowing nothing about the film. He actually thought it was a creature feature 🤣 25 minutes in he paused it and asked if we were going to see the monster soon 🤭 He almost wanted to stop watching but hung in there and ended up loving it. 
If you haven’t seen this, what are you waiting for?? Most people will like it 👍
2530. Yorum: It’s on Netflix PH. Go check it out for the hundredth time!
2531. Yorum: bruh.
2532. Yorum: Situations impromptues, réalisation de feu, acting impeccable, réflexion décalissante sur les classes sociales... sans surprise, je n'ai pas été déçu en revoyant Parasite.
Cela dit, je dois avouer que j'ai trouvé que le film perd un ti-brin de tonus lorsqu'on l'a déjà vu. Ce qui, à mon avis, est loin d'être le cas de tous les grands films.
Je me rappelle encore de la façon dont je me suis senti lors du BIG REVEAL, au milieu du film... j'étais littéralement, physiquement sur le bout de ma chaise, dans la salle de cinéma. Et je m'étais alors dit: ah, voilà d'où vient cette expression! True story.
C'est le genre de scène qui ne se vit vraiment que la première fois.
2533. Yorum: Still holds up incredibly well on a further rewatch that, if anything, just adds extra tension. But despite the obviously amazing social criticism the film presents (especially) during the second half, seldomly is a film as precise, fun and effective as Parasite is during the early 30-40 minutes of Kim Ki-woo and his family conning their way to those jobs.
2534. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho changed how the world sees non-American cinema with the cleverest picture from 2019. His sophomore masterpiece is a socioeconomic studio exploiting the best of South Korean cinema, playing with tints of comedy—as Bong has done before—in a drama rather turned into a thriller. 
Parasite truly deserves to be perceived as one of the best films of the century, although occupying the first place in Letterboxd's Top 250 might be debatable. I know, Netflix and Bong ruled the world for months when the film was first released, it has got the greatest distribution for a film outside the US, and the critics as well as the considerable amount of awards Parasite received raised a groundbreaking interest in people around the globe. Just check Letterboxd’s stats: 1.47 members! And that is just people who is aware this app exists. South Korean is in its artistic peak nowadays, just forget about Parasite; BlackPink, BTS, TWICE, Squid Game, it is an apogee and world-domination regarding entertainment and commercial products. Imagine if the rest of SK film would’ve had the same distribution of this picture. 
What Bong said about subtitles, which we are all aware of, should go beyond America; not only Americans are lazy enough not to read subtitles, I think everyone used to consume commercial cinema is, and that is why I think Parasite is treated as the pinnacle of non-American cinema. This is such a watershed moment for international cinema, and eventually, I hope people discover the many masterpieces existing beyond The Godfather and The Shawshank Redemption. Friends of mine come at me and say: "man! I’ve never seen something like Parasite before"… Of course you haven’t, you just consume Hollywood blockbusters and from time to time a filmbro classic like Fight Club or Prisoners. Dare to discover. Yes, cinema was born as a form of entertainment, and it still is and there is no problem with that, but it’s also an art, and the majority of the population may not even know the best cinema isn’t made in the US these days. 
The film itself is brilliant in any way you can imagine. The slow-panning camera, framing, subtext, the clear criticism towards the highly-influential high class and their ignorance about the real world which is outside their privilege bubble. Music is key, and so is every detail of Kim's family perfect plan. Parasite is an admirable work of scripting, having one of the three greatest plot twists in any South Korean film so far. The parallelisms and its thrilling climax followed by a tricky ending are impactful even with a rewatch. Or how about its splendid editing and how it manages to keep us hooked with the fast-paced plot development? Simply everything about it is phenomenal. 
I’ll keep myself from elaborating further as it has been said a lot about Parasite, which is a masterpiece. It is the work which finally started to let people delve into the beautiful world of cinema, and discover that there are many phenomenal stories which shaped cinema apart from the same old Kubrick, Nolan, Fincher and Tarantino cinema. Not what I’d consider Bong's best—Memories of Murder owns the place—neither the film which should be the greatest of all time—in my opinion—, but again, a watershed moment for the world.
2535. Yorum: 
2536. Yorum: starting 2022 off with the movie that got me into film, manifesting a good year !
2537. Yorum: watching parasite in the basement apartment of my friend’s parents’ house while they’re on vacation has an unsettling art-imitates-life quality 👀 pure visual poetry though!
2538. Yorum: i still think the scene where they’re all hiding under the table and park starts talking about how ki-taek smells is one of the most genius and devastating and subversively emotionally charged scenes in cinema history
2539. Yorum: I think it's the fourth time I watch Parasite and the impact is the same: an amazingly well crafted work of art that reaches levels rarely seen before in the history of moviemaking.
Gorgeously shot, fabulously edited, and astonishingly directed, Parasite also gathers incredible actors who deliver unforgettable performances in a film full of humor, tension, and social critiques. It's that type of story well told that appears once in a lifetime and captures the zeitgeist like no other. The storm sequence, when the characters cross the city under the rain, is certainly one of the most memorable moments in the history of cinema. I'm happy I got the chance to watch it so many times and I hope I come back to revisit it soon.
2540. Yorum: honestly took me way too long to watch this film, was so worth it in the end though. what a masterpiece, wow
2541. Yorum: when the dilf got stabbed by the other dilf ... poetic cinema
2542. Yorum: this was so good i loved it
2543. Yorum: Deserves every single bit of praise that it gets.
2544. Yorum: every rewatch of parasite is so different and i can’t put my finger on it but it blows my mind
2545. Yorum: i'm so late i know pls don't judge me :(((
but this was absolutley immaculate. i loved every second of it oh my god✨✨ THATS CINEMA. definitely going straight into the list of one of my favourite movies ever, it's power !!!
2546. Yorum: I pride myself in knowing that I saw this movie in theaters before all the buzz and hype, without even knowing what the premise was, simply because I wanted to go see “that new Bong Joon-ho movie” as soon as possible.
It strokes my ego and I use it as a personality trait. That’s not weird...... right???
2547. Yorum: A rare cinematic masterpiece deserving of all of its acclaim and accolades.
🌟Why I Love East Asian Cinema🌟
2548. Yorum: 
2549. Yorum: i refuse to believe there are people who don't like this film.. if you don't like this film then i can't trust you
2550. Yorum: Well, I fell into the hype trap with this one. It won Best Picture, so my expectations were sky high. I kept trying to jump one step ahead of it, but the twists never exceeded my imagination. It felt relatively tame. Not sure I'm interested in a rewatch either. I did enjoy it, but it wasn't my favorite of 2019.
2551. Yorum: 4th watch and finally got to show my mom. 
It is so beautiful, that ending is so heartfelt I really got watch more Bong. I think sometime this week I am going to check memories of Murder and maybe the host.
2552. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's end of decade masterpiece, Parasite, is a timely, ruminative and cautionary tale about the dangers and pitfalls of social class. Like everyone else in the world, I adored this film for it's sudden tone shifts, it's incredible acting and beautiful cinematography. The star of it all is the masterful script Bong wrote with Han Jin-won.
Going into this film, I thought it was going to be a horror flick, almost like The Host. But what I got was a black comedy, a suspenseful thriller and a dash of horror. Bong is a craftsman of the highest caliber, seamlessly weaving genres as if it was the easiest thing in the world to do. I marvel at the choices Bong makes as a director, fearlessly choosing the bold over the bland, unafraid of failure. He knows what he wants and how to get it. At a young 50, I'm excited to see where his career continues to take him.
Joon-ho is known to give his actors massive creative freedom on set, wanting them to be comfortable and feel able to try new things without consequence. His motto is that acting is the actors job. And it shows with the entire talented cast he has. I'm not going to touch on every cast member because honestly, EVERYONE is flawless in this film. Each of them hits their marks with stride and believability. I do want to touch on my personal favorite performer in this film, Song Kang-ho who plays Kim Ki-taek, the lazy, goofy patriarch of the Kim family. Song is considered the Marlon Brando of acting in South Korea, and it's quite easy to see why. He creates characters with so much ease and nuance that you can't help but root for him. His progression through this film is riveting to watch. He's lovable but fed up with his life and where it has gotten him. You can feel that want for more, that this wasn't the plan. He delivers at every moment that he must. I felt he should've been nominated for an Oscar, but hey, they won Best Picture.
The centerpiece and beating heart of this astounding piece of cinema, lies in Bong's script. A defiant look at class conflict, social inequality and wealth disparity; we're introduced to a world that Bong is angry at. We feel the rage he has towards it all with razor sharp social commentary. He holds open the wound and makes us watch the blood pour out and explore the inside of it. He digs for the moments that hit us hardest. Walking out of the theatre, I felt angry too. Knowing how wrong it is that we live this way, but knowing there's not much to do about it. Except work for it and get lucky. It's a necessary story in tumultuous times. One we can all relate too.
This is the most necessary piece of cinema of the last decade. For this to come to us in 2019 was a God send. It was as if Bong looked at the past decade and knew, that more than ever, people are angry with the disparity. This film is a must watch for every cinephile and filmmaker alike. Must watch.
2553. Yorum: Using my self quarantine time I finally got around to finishing my 2019 in Film edit. Check it out if you’re into that kind of thing
2554. Yorum: this movie sucks, could not even understand what they were saying, Some how it won a Oscar? nothing even happened until the last quarter, only got exiting once the sex scene starts, but the woman was way too old. too boring, dont watch. i would much rather watch the new fast and furious, at least something actually happens
2555. Yorum: Wow. Didn’t think I would love this film as much as I do. Bong Joon-ho deserved all of the oscars he won.
2556. Yorum: The way this movie shifts tones is so well done, and I honestly felt sad during this movie for the family. But they are so diabolical. Now I’m starting to get why it won best picture, some of the writing for this movie is just unbelievable. I also love the fact that the majority of this film was set in a really well designed house, it just adds to the intensity so well. Bong Joon Ho deserves his best director, the direction in which he took this movie was incredible. Well done Parasite...
2557. Yorum: bong joon-ho ranked
i... sad
2558. Yorum: "Belt of trust"
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
2559. Yorum: yeah i had to watch it again for obvious reasons.. the hype around this masterpiece is truly justified
2560. Yorum: Bon. Faut dire en commençant que j'ai beau être une contrariante de première classe avec ma note pis toutte, je me suis quand même pas faite chier pendant le visionnement: je ne me suis pas ennuyée, je n'ai pas soupiré, j'ai au contraire ri quelques fois et j'ai trouvé ça cringy d'une façon l'fun, même si j'ai trouvé aussi que même les parties comiques manquaient singulièrement de ludisme. C'était beaucoup trop self-conscious comme film pour s'oublier dans le plaisir et ça fait en quelque sorte partie de ce que je reproche à Parasite.
Mais comme... je sais pas. Le film est beau, impeccable, mais je m'en fous de ça, dans l'absolu. Je veux dire, tant mieux, c'est un plus, mais c'est jamais suffisant pour me happer, pour retenir mon attention ou pour me faire aimer un film. Et c'est un peu ce que je retiens du film: une (très) belle enveloppe un peu vide, ou, plutôt, pas tant vide, mais habitée par une commentaire social paresseux et assez facile. Je trouve ça quand même parlant que Parasite ait remporté l'Oscar du meilleur film: c'est comme, Hollywood s'est pas senti menacé par le film (avec raison, c'était mou comme critique), mais sûrement que des tapes dans le dos se sont échangées en se disant: "eille, on est-tu woke pareil, hen?" Après, c'est sûr qu'étant donné ma formation en sociologie, je suis très critique de ce genre de commentaire social qui manque de nuances, qui polarise et qui caricature. Je ne connais pas la Corée du tout, mais je suis quand même prête à m'avancer assez pour dire que je trouve ça triste le manque de générosité envers les classes populaires dans Parasite —pour les classes supérieures aussi, mais en même temps, c'est pas équivalent de manquer de générosité envers des personnes qui disposent du gros bout du gâteau dans l'espace social, et envers ceux et celles qui vivent dans la misère et qui sont déjà dépossédé.es. Rendu là, j'ai mieux aimé Shoplifters qui était déjà au moins plus humain.
Après, je sens que c'est quand même sévère comme note, avec pas de coeur en plus, mais comme, je le feel pas. Mon coeur n'a pas bondi. Mais je feel pas non plus de ne rien mettre du tout, faque allons-y pour genre, un thumbs up au film? C'tu correct, ça?
2561. Yorum: 
2562. Yorum: Black and white was so nice :-)
2563. Yorum: This was hella dope. 🔥
🍑🍑🍑🍑🍑 Five outta five peaches
2564. Yorum: A poor family, the Kims, con their way into becoming the servants of a rich family, the Parks. But their easy life gets complicated when their deception is threatened with exposure. Bong Joon Ho’s masterpiece is as impeccably designed and structured as the Park’s dream home. Much like his previous works, Bong Joon Ho provides commentary on the current state of affairs at the time. His views on social and class divide have been a constant source of storytelling and motivation for his characters. Parasite is no different, the divide between the Kim family and the Parks is evident, as the Kim family slowly infect and infiltrate their more affluent hosts. Bong Joon Ho handles the tonal shifts with great skill although not subtle, the tonal shifts feel very natural as events seem to spiral out of control. Parasite begins as easily some of the most comedic work of his career as the Kim family hustle and con their way through existence as the narrative progresses as we stumble through a chain of events that can simply be described as opening Pandora’s box as it takes a dark and tragic turn. Meanwhile this is all held together with Bong Joon Ho’s masterful direction and his very charming and adaptable cast who are all on exquisite form. The very fact that there are no clear heroes nor villains is another master stoke as this is up to the viewer and their own ethics. It feels very much that all his earlier work has been building towards crafting this masterpiece, from his use of powerful imagery to creating very real and relatable characters. By navigating the labyrinth we are delving more into the mind of how Bong Joon Ho operates, by letting the story unfold we led to believe that Joon Ho is very clear on his stance about today’s society. Even though there is this huge class divide there are still human beings on each side and this is what he taps into; the humanity. Overall, Parasite deserves every award it has won and then some as this can simply be described as a masterpiece and a very high bar set for all filmmaking for the coming decade.
2565. Yorum: Knives Out was my favorite film I've seen in 2019. It was so masterfully crafted. An engaging modern murder mystery with extremely varied and lovable characters. I love it.
But now, a little late, I finally managed to see Parasite. And while Knives Out is still amazing and the story is immensely well constructed I wasn't prepared in any way shape or form for Parasite. I managed to avoid any spoilers and even plot synopsis so I had not the slightest idea what to expect.
Bong Joon-ho really is a fucking weirdo for coming up with this thing. He's such a masterful craftsmen, chess-player, puppeteer, whatever you want to call him. This world and this scenario is so well crafted and executed that it could never have been done better. And if it takes fucking weirdos to make such wonderful movies I'd argue we should replace every person in Hollywood with fucking weirdos. The tonal shifts in this film are intense and all acts feel distinctly different and could (if viewed by themselves) be from entirely different movies. Yet that doesn't make anything feel disjointed or unsatisfying. It's the exact opposite. You're constantly at the edge of your seat and the story goes places you couldn't even dream about. This is all built around a perfect ensemble of cast members which feel so real and relatable that you don't doubt anything of it. It's hilarious, thrilling, gripping and straight up breathtaking.
This is one of the best movies I have ever seen in my life. Please throw all the awards at this man. And yay for making foreign films more widely acknowledged. There's so much more than boring old Hollywood.
2566. Yorum: "We are paying you extra."
Prob flubbed that line a bit but man, that part hit hard as I watched before going to work at a company that, well, doesn't even pay me extra when they dump more work on me.
2567. Yorum: rewatched this with my dad and shamelessly sobbed in front of him. the ending never fails to make me cry... but tonight it hit harder than usual because this beautiful beautiful film finally got academy award recognition ❤️ absolutely so well deserved!!! i love my best picture winner!!!
2568. Yorum: You earned it my friend.
You earned it.
🏆
2569. Yorum: theater - third viewing
Literally just got out of seeing the black and white version.. and I genuinely cannot stress this enough, I need a miracle. Parasite to WIN.
edit: IT HAPPENED. HELL. FUCKING. YES!! 
ONE FOR THE BOOKS. HISTORY WAS MADE.
2570. Yorum: Best picture winner!! Or I’m gonna be killing myself tomorrow
2571. Yorum: Right, time to see what all the fuss is about. 
First off, if it wasn’t for the massive hype and Oscar buzz, I probably would’ve gladly skip under my radar, I’m glad I didn’t, but unfortunately not by a whole lot. 
The first half of the movie, the real build up, is fantastic. If that was the film then I’d happily dish out 5*. But, it definitely lost its way a tad after the whiskey drinking scene. It did pick up towards the end but for something that felt so real and gritty at the start just came across as a bit silly. Perhaps I need to give it a second go but for now I’ll just say I really liked the movie, I just, sadly, didn’t love it.
2572. Yorum: When film aficionado Dizzee Rascal said unto Bong Joon-Ho, quote, "Hey, turn the bass up," Bong Joon-Ho gleefully complied, to which Dizzee Rascal then responded, quote, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah."
2573. Yorum: This black and white thing fucking sucks
2574. Yorum: 
2575. Yorum: A parasite doesn’t infect a host overnight. It takes its time, slowly taking over an organism little by little. Likewise the film starts off slow as it introduces us to the characters and the world they inhabit. It’s a choice that pays off wonderfully by the end. Equal parts hilarious and diabolical, Parasite is a film about class warfare and is a clear critique of modern society. The hype is real.
2576. Yorum: An amazing film. Very suspenseful, funny, and challenging. Not only that but the film is shot beautifully and the actors are really good and believable. An absolute must-watch and a really good example of a foreign film.
2577. Yorum: still the best movie of 2019 100%
2578. Yorum: #الصراع الطبقي
"هل تعلم ماهو نوع الخطط الذي لا يفشل أبدًا؟ عدم التخطيط. هل تعلم لماذا؟ لأن الحياة لا يمكن تخطيطها" 
-أن تعيش كطفيلي، أن تعيش كشبح .. 
لماذا اسم الفلم الطفيلي؟ الطفيل كائن حي يعيش معتمدًا على كائن حي آخر يسمى العائل، يكشف لنا الفلم منذ البداية بأن التطفل هو نمط العيش الذي تحيا به العائلة، ببساطة نحن نعيش في عصر يتغذى فيه الإنسان على الآخر. الهام المخرج كان من حياته الواقعية أثناء دراسته الجامعية لجأ للتدريس لابن أحد الأثرياء من أجل الحصول على المال، ولازال يتذكر حتى الآن وهو من الطبقة الوسطى ذلك الشعور الغريب والمخيف لدى رؤيته منزل العائلة الثرية للمرة الأولى.
كيف تجعل من فيلمك وجبة دسمة لكل فرد يشاهد الأفلام مهما كانت الميول؟ المخرج بونج جون مع فلم بارسايت استطاع خلق قصة اصلية بعيدة عن الابتذال وللجميع، دراما وحوارات ممتعة مع كوميديا سوداء واثارة جميلة، يصف المخرج الفلم بأنه "كوميديا بلا مهرجين، ومأساة بلا أشرار"، قصة الفلم حول عائلة فقيرة تعيش في حي فقير يحتالون من أجل البقاء في هذه الحياة، قصة تصل اليك بكل سهولة قضية واقعية تعرض التباين في طبقات المجتمع، مع الفلم راح نكون مع عائلة فقيرة وأُخرى غنية، راح تشوف الفقراء يلجؤون إلى الخداع والاحتيال من أجل البقاء، وراح تشوف سذاجة الاغنياء، السيناريو وبناء شخصيات العائلتين والتدرّج بالقصة بدايةً بروتين العائلة ثم الربط بين العائلتين ثم دمج الاثارة وتغيّر مسار الفلم كان رائع جدا، ايضا الحوارات ممتعة والكوميديا جميلة .. 
طرح الفكرة باسلوب المكان والسينماتوغرافي كان رائع، اظهر تفاصيل بيت العائلة الفقيرة والغنية والتباين والفروقات الاجتماعية في بعض المشاهد دون الحاجة الى حوارات، الاخراج بشكل عام جدا ممتاز بين لقطات واسعة او ضيقة لدعم أفكار الفلم وايصال المعنى .. 
طاقم التمثيل الجميع كان رائع وبالأخص سونق بشخصية الأب المُتقبّل لحاله ظاهرا وكيف تعامله مع حالة الفقر والاحتيال مع الأبناء، كان تمثيل جميل بالمشاعر والوجه، ايضا الموسيقى بالفلم كانت جميلة ومُناسبة جدا .. 
في النهاية الفلم كان تحفة من السينما الكورية يستحق كُل وقتك.
2579. Yorum: once you overcome the one inch barrier of subtitles you'll be introduced to so many more amazing films. - bong joon ho
mate, don't even fucking talk to me right now. i need to sit with myself for a moment and think about what i've done.
did i think i was different, CLEVER by not watching this film until now ????? oh everyone's watching parasite? im too quirky to follow the hype!!!! I'LL JUST SIT DOWN AND WATCH SAM ROCKWELL'S AVERAGELY RATED 2.8 STAR FILMOGRAPHY instead (i love u mr rockwell but it wasn't the right thing to do, self destructive even). wow, haven't i made myself look the fool. i think i might want this film tattooed on my eyeballs so it's the only thing i can ever see.

｡･ﾟﾟ･ADDED TO: ･ﾟﾟ･｡
360 films for 2020 (5/360)
top 10 for 2020
2019 ranked
the classics
2580. Yorum: As the wise Bong Joon-ho once said: once you overcome the one-inch tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films!
2581. Yorum: starting the new year right by watching this masterpiece again. i still have no words. it just gets better with every rewatch. parasite is that film. 
take care until then. 
so long. 
2582. Yorum: asians won
2583. Yorum: There’s nothing to be said that hasn’t been said already about this film. A goddamn masterpiece.
2584. Yorum: boy this was so fucked up, i'm speechless and terrified. this is probably the best film of the year, everything about this is perfect. i can't wait to see it at the oscars next year.
2585. Yorum: can’t wait for the hollywood elite to give this a standing ovation when this wins an oscar and then go home and ask their personal staff to make them a snack
2586. Yorum: Logging this almost two days late, my bad. It was pretty good though! Definitely a treat to watch having seen no trailers or anything of the sort beforehand.
Great cast (Park So-dam was so good) and the pacing was better than previous films I've seen from Bong Joon-ho so far.
Can't wait to watch it again.
2587. Yorum: 
2588. Yorum: Ich habe viel erwartet und viel bekommen. Leichtfüßige und flüssige Kamerafahrten, gefühlt jedes Genre, das es gibt, samt nahtlosen und perfekten Übergängen ineinander, beißende und zugleich federleichte Gesellschaftskritik, grandiose humoristische Spitzen (gut, die habe ich weniger erwartet...) und noch so viel mehr, das ich erst entschlüsseln muss.
Aber es fehlt auch ein bisschen was. Das Finale geht in Ordnung, rund fühlt es sich dennoch nicht unbedingt an. Will uns Bong Joon-ho auf den letzten Metern noch an die Hand nehmen? Und wenn ja, warum? Cut to Black im Garten und ich wäre deutlich zufriedener aus dem Saal gegangen. Emotional bin ich leider auch null investiert, obwohl die Sympathien augenscheinlich immer wieder wechseln sollen. Auch so bin ich noch zufrieden und meckere auf enorm hohem Niveau und alle ihr, die das hier lest, seid zum Teil schuld daran. Mir wurde ein Meisterwerk versprochen, ich habe einen sehr guten Film bekommen. Gibt schlimmeres.
2589. Yorum: I did what that Cannes title card that opened the film told me to do and certainly regarded it! Let’s just call it like it is and say I’m Parashook!
2590. Yorum: Woo boy! Well that sure is something, huh? Bong Joon-Ho is a master and this is my kind of satire. Eat the rich.
2591. Yorum: Needed to collect my thoughts for this one after seeing it 2 days ago. Bong Joon-Ho is an incredible director, melding motifs of gut wrenching drama, comedy, suspense, mystery, horror, he explores social and class struggles and the intrinsic darkness in everyone. In Parasite this is all as succinct as ever. What strikes me about this movie is how these revelations only became exciting to me long after, because the watching of the film itself is a rollicking journey, the best time I’ve had in a cinema in ages. It works as both. A story and tone that keeps surprising. On top of that, a beautiful looking film. Anticipatory direction, editing and staging that elevates the comically pointed allusions to class divide. The whole cast is great, able to pull off the slapstick comedy and depressing drama. This movie left me in awe. Bong Joon-Ho’s best in a while. Everyone should watch it.
2592. Yorum: this isn’t a film, this is a fìlmé
2593. Yorum: If you “Eat the Rich”....you’re still a Cannibal. Yet here we are still starving to death. So it goes in the chain of predation: whoever wins, humanity loses.
My friends, PARASITE is not fucking around.
2594. Yorum: Park So-dam I am free next Thursday
2595. Yorum: In classic Bong Joon-ho fashion, every time you think you have a grip on where the movie is going, it takes a wild left turn and you plunge into hilarity and madness. Parasite is a phenomanal genre fluid film about family, class and survival. Everyone is kind of scummy, never sure who you can trust, all you can hope is that the characters can keep their head above water. There's so much haunting and moving imagery from both the ordinary to extraordinary. It’s a foreboding narrative of the gap in class and the comedically tragic cycle one can be trapped in.
2596. Yorum: WOW OKAY THAT EXISTS
2597. Yorum: I'd hate to just add on to the hype train and set this movie to unreachable standards for anyone who hasn't been able to hit the Bong yet.
But holy fucking shit.
2598. Yorum: Turns out it’s not a good script nor is it a great editing what makes a perfect picture. 
It’s ~peaches~
2599. Yorum: It is amazing how Bong Joon-ho manages to masterfully juggle multiple genres of film while creating a layered narrative with detailed metaphors and acute social commentary within an intriguing story that engrosses us until the end, raising the stakes with overwhelming tension and providing a number of hilarious and mind-boggling scenes.
2600. Yorum: 
2601. Yorum: Joel Coen has said that directing comes down to two words: "tone management". Every time I finish watching a Bong Joon-ho film, the most prominent thought on my mind was that there isn't a single director who can balance tone as efficiently as he does. Parasite, at least on first viewing, is in my estimation the finest work of the director's career to date. It certainly feels like a culmination of his canon, a mature work from a master who has been building to his magnum opus and finally achieved it. Mixing a comedy of manners with a commentary on class divide, a hauntingly dark, gruesome thriller, and an emotional drama about a poor family simply trying to survive together and achieve some kind of higher position in life, Parasite occupies so many spaces, and yet there isn't a single moment where the tone tilts off-balance.
Every second of this movie feels so purposeful, so precise and keyed exactly to what Bong wants his movie to be, which is something quite unlike anything else that's come before it. This is a director who has always existed solely in his own space, where no one else can touch the specific note that he's playing in, which makes watching a Bong movie a singular experience. Parasite concerns two families, the poor Kim family, and the wealthy Park family. Bong's story starts off with the Kims slowly integrating themselves into the home of the Parks with employment opportunities under false pretenses. It's an interloper story that's loaded with humor, a Machiavellian scheme to line each member of the family up with a job one at a time, no matter the cost. It's supremely entertaining, something that's at the forefront of every Bong film, and certainly remains so here.
Parasite is never anything less than gripping, constantly keeping you guessing and subverting expectations of where this story is going to go. For that reason, it would be criminal for me to go into any further detail on the plot mechanics and spoil the fun for anyone yet to see this fascinatingly alive film. "Alive" is a word that permeates through so much of this picture, certainly so when thinking of the Park home itself, the place where the majority of the action takes place. A modern wonder of architecture loaded with open space and intricate staging, the house in this movie is a character unto itself, something that gives you as many surprises as the story itself.
Where Parasite eventually takes you will have you spinning, and yet while the fun of the story shifts from dark humor to tense thrills and emotions, Bong of course makes sure to guide it all through the lens of supremely well-constructed characters. The Kim family is one of great dimension and perseverance, a resilient and relatable group of characters who you want to root for even when you know that their actions are potentially harmful to others. From the opening scene you really feel like a part of this family, and yet as the movie goes on you are allowed more insight into their flaws, and more empathy into the Park family, who initially are simply seen as objects who exist for the Kims to manipulate for their own prosperity. Nothing is ever simple in a Bong Joon-ho movie, and the layers that he unravels in Parasite become more troubling and more fascinating the longer that you exist within the walls of this immaculate home. This is a movie that I know I'm going to be revisiting many times in the future, and surely one of the very best of 2019.
2602. Yorum: it's not a horror movie but there's a specific scene that scared the crap out of me. that image will forever haunt my sleep.
2603. Yorum: That whole family probably has “$CAMMIN” license plates and honestly good for them.
2604. Yorum: Parasite is a consistently riveting film with great performances, an incredibly engaging story, and some very intense moments that genuinely had me holding my breath. It's incredibly unpredictable and it kept me on my toes for its entire runtime. My only issue is that the film is just a tad too long, and maybe a scene or two could've been a little tighter, but those are really just minor complaints in an overall fantastic film that is among the best I've seen all year.
GRADE: A
2605. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho is not one for subtlety these days. His last two movies were just full of heavy-handedness that didn’t gel with me. For his latest, he returns from Hollywood to satirize South Korea’s ever-stratifying society. It’s not the freshest idea around, and the message is clear from the title alone. But what the director lacks in nuance, he makes up for in hysterical B-movie hijinks and pulpy pageantry. The film adeptly blends dark comedy with horror. And the characters, with their quirks and all, are so much fun. Near the end, however, the film kind of resorted to some stale genre mechanics. Regardless, I think no one can deny that this is Bong’s most interesting work since Mother.
2606. Yorum: Parasite reminds us that we are one-hundred percent in the golden age of Asian film and that director Bong Joon Ho, is a God amongst us all.
Parasite is the odd mixing of comedy, thriller, horror in terms of genre. It is a socially conscious film in ways, and yet, at the same time, not. Simply, in a word, it's breathtaking. As in you'll actually be breathless by the conclusion of the film. It is so subtly thrilling and exotic in all that it hopes to achieve. Its sole purpose almost serves as a way for audiences to go, well god damn, I really fucking love film.
The social commentary is rife with avid doses of symbolism and exquisite use of mise-en-scene to the upmost level of craft. However, it never seems over the top and is such a powerful force within the film.
It deals with tension in such a shocking and nerve wrenching way, you never know what to expect. Bong Joon Ho fills every frame with painstakingly thought out shots and story premise, meaning you’ll barely dare to blink in the fear of missing some important piece of cinematography or clever point of symbolism.
The acting is superb and on point and the characters are brought to life with an air of hardened reality and realistic ideals. It is a perfect window viewing for audiences as a result of this.
Where Parasite shines more so than anything else, is in fact in the story and script. Both meticulously and carefully thought out in such an entertaining and jaw-dropping pace. Not once will you feel even an ounce of boredom in a film that never seems to hint at which direction it’ll turn next.
You’ll leave a little wiser, a little richer in thought and undoubtedly uneasy. Go watch this film. Right now!
2607. Yorum: i love watching films with not knowing anything about it and this film is the exact reason why. during the first half i laughed, then i had to asked my friend if this film is a thriller, and it is, and i literally jumped off my seat during THAT sequence.
the storyline is so original and everything that happened is so unpredictable, it feels like the things that happened is impossible but given the context it makes sense and the fact that it makes sense, makes bong joon-ho one of the most authentic writer-director. definitely one of my favorites this year.
2608. Yorum: I loved this.
Perfect performances and just so uniquely infused with humor and delight against tragedy.
2609. Yorum: No words, genuinely a good movie.
2610. Yorum: films that talk about social class always get me
this is a masterpiece the ending got me
am taking a break from long review on this one no need for that
its a masterpiece بمعنى الكلمه
2611. Yorum: Deserved a trailer in Kinds of kindness style
2612. Yorum: Wild how this subverts it's own genre and becomes a horror film halfway through.
2613. Yorum: 
2614. Yorum: Magnum Bong - Hit #7
A Tale of Two Classes
2615. Yorum: my friends told me that this is the best movie in the world, I didn't believe. I saw and found out it's the best movie in the world
2616. Yorum: korean “hero lies about identity and goes to someone house” movie. 
can’t say the impression of trivikram’s pen is not present.
2617. Yorum: This film is one of the best ever no doubt about it so much better on rewatch 
The cinematographer and colour palette are so cleverly used
2618. Yorum: What if this movie started out as one thing in the first half but then became a completely different thing in the second half.
Completely floored, I mean just what an incredible achievement in filmmaking. It’s wildly original and unpredictable, and there are so many things that you don’t see coming. I don’t want to say too much, it’s one you gotta see to believe
This is why I love movies, I’m gonna obsess about this one until the end of time
A+
2619. Yorum: Parasite is one of the best films I’ve ever watched. I’ve been hearing non stop praise for this film since 2019 and knowing that it won best picture made me even more excited. This movie absolutely deserved best picture and was easily the best film of 2019. The script is literally brilliant in every way. The story is about a poor family that eventually starts stealing jobs from within a rich family to gain fast income together. It’s funny because you don’t like any characters in this movie as they are not good people. But I found myself enjoying the film so much because I knew things would get intense quickly. The acting from everyone was magnificent.
The rich family in particular or at least the mother was so good at playing this rich snob who is so oblivious to things going on around her. When we get to that underground bunker reveal where the old maid had been keeping her husband, I was genuinely shocked. It was such a smart script decision that made the third act crazy. The ending scene was so well executed when Ki-Woo explained the plan he had for his father after what happened as it tied back to when he told his son that people should never make plans cause nothing can wrong if you don’t. I knew within the second act of this movie I was going to love it and it would be a favorite and it is! So far this is the best foreign film I’ve ever seen!
2620. Yorum: A shocking take, I know.
But it's so good! The tonal and genre shifts are done amazingly well, especially compared to Bong's previous film Okja (which is also great). Visuals are outstanding, there was not a single weak performance as far as I could tell, lots of amazing foreshadowing. Yeah, it's really good
I'm not sure if I agree with its placement as number 1 on this site/app, but I definitely understand why. I already want to rewatch it, and I think that says a lot
I really wish I watched this in theatres
2621. Yorum: Friendly reminder that the slaughter and dispossession of Palestinians is not a two-sided “conflict,” but rather genocidal settler colonialism at work.
I feel like for folks interested in movies and music - particularly for folks working in these industries - there’s a lot of knee-jerk worry right now about anti-Semitism. But if you can’t differentiate between condemning zionist violence and being anti-Semitic, please educate yourself and those around you! 
Lots of famous folks have been fucking this up this week. Even the usually 💯 Rihanna showed her ass yesterday by both sides-ing the slaughter of Palestinian people. (girl don’t make me pull my Kiss It Better cover from my new album, c’mon...)
FREE PALESTINE.

*(there’s really no ideal film to log this message under - I just picked something popular in the hopes that more people would end up seeing it)
2622. Yorum: I drank a substantial amount of whiskey before this rewatch, but this viewing was still as tense as the first. 
There’s nothing to say about Parasite that hasn’t been said, but I personally find it to be extremely well done. The characters are all so human and so complex. Even the title of this film is pristine, and is a talking point on its own.
No matter how clever or resourceful a person is, there’s a significant likelihood that they’ll never have a chance to “walk up that flight of steps” or pull themselves up to an affluent life. That ending is such a glorious punch in the gut for viewers. Despite the humor in the beginning of the film, the final scenes are oppressively sad. Parasite is a work of art worth revisiting nonetheless.
2623. Yorum: Money makes people nice. 
You’d think any kind of determinism would be repulsive to the human mind, simply by virtue of being, well, determinism. Calling a man evil is less insulting than calling him a victim of his environment, because the former implies that he has agency while the latter simply reduces him to a pawn of economic and social fate. The Kims, drinking the Parks’ alcohol and sitting in the Parks’ home, gripe and moan about how they can’t be nice since they lack the sufficient funding to do so, not seeming to realize that such complaints chip away — nay, jackhammer away — the foundation of their basic human dignity and pride, the very pride that allows them to be stung by comments about how they smell. 
Anyhow. Good movie. Highest rated on Letterboxd? Gimme a break. Best Picture? Less absurd, but still questionable in a year that had both Once Upon a Time In Hollywood and A Hidden Life (and Ad Astra, and The Irishman, and Knives Out...)
2624. Yorum: Watching this with friends really lets you appreciate the comedy of this film.
Also, one of the greatest of all time.
If you haven’t seen it, what are you doing
5/5
2625. Yorum: Yeah still a 10
2626. Yorum: 
2627. Yorum: Borat better wa wa wee wa king in the castle
2628. Yorum: Parasite breaks every imaginable Asian stereotype and then some and I freaking love it! Beautifully outright insidious, melodic, captivatingly dark and humorous, downright diabolical and ingeniously twisted to the core. It’s the deepest form of inception implanted in your brain since the batshit of Gotham corruption hit the fan on a global mass media level. While I let your brain digest that. You can mark Parasite as Incomparable. I humbly bow down to Bong Joon-ho gods. 
Categorically and insufferably better than it has any right to be. If  Snowpiercer was the icicle like a knife in our back stabbing at the moral heart of humanities virtues Parasite is the sadistic iceberg that came to sink the social paradigm and rip open its wounds like a gaping hole for all too see. It has the dark sensibilities and echoes of Peele’s US, yet it is an unholy experience all its own. Suffocating us in the idiocy of social class divisions Korean style. How Peele gave us the cleverly unexpected underground world of shadow people and explored the darkness of duality. Joon-ho unleashes the hidden world and echoes of war and social elitism. 
Parasite is deliciously relatable. Fixating itself around the juxtaposition of a lower class family and a rich one that could represent practically any nationality or ethnic group in the world, but the director smartly relies on and manipulates the world and culture he knows all too well. You don’t need to be Korean to grasp the film’s compelling strokes and that is undoubtedly the beauty of it. Truly serving as an contemporary example of the universal power of cinema when done right. Likewise it’s probably the best show of infiltration into a group or way of life ever. Hell I wish I thought of it.  
A cinematic expose of mesmerizing beats and compositions. Strongly lit and flawlessly colored to create a world of bottom to top classism. Every shot is perfect. Every angle on point. Effortlessly making every scene  amusing and sinister to behold. The plot twist and turns and dives with relative ease and formidable shock. When you think you know, you don’t quite really know how it’s going to play out. When you think it’s over it’s spins another curveball. But by the end everything elegantly comes full circle in this intriguing dark satire, which never ceases to be funny, strikingly blunt, and horrifyingly encapsulating at every turn. Where you always wanting to know what they will do next. Which is why I refuse to go into any real specific details because it’s a film you have to see to believe for yourself. 
Parasite is hands down one of the smartest and most intelligent films I’ve ever seen. I don’t think I’ve been this enchanted with a film director like this since the dawn of Nolan and Eggers. As the film feels familiar yet simultaneously entirely different and new. What these individuals do is awe inspiring and disheartening. How removed the rich are from the struggles of the poor or societal ills is heartbreaking and all too ripe in the times we live in. This film definitely takes on a different color and becomes all the more important and relevant in 2020. When you have millions filling for unemployment. Thousands if not more people homeless and hungry trying to survive in unknowable situation with an uncertain outcome. And with slew of natural disasters the events of the film hit too close to home. Not to mention there is a eerie and strange irony mirrored within the film and the uptick of crime in America as people become burdened, overtaxed, and strained under the pandemic. Parasite feeling like a overdue wake up call of global and human injustice. 
Meanwhile this film is an absolute testament to the diversity of a culture. How we perceive or may harbor certain unconscious prejudices about a particular group or country. It’s an undeniable microscopic and eye-opening look into a slice of Korean society. One I can’t even completely wrap my head around, but definitely opens the door for further examination. One that had me asking how much of this is actually true and leaving me fascinated. And honestly I had to laugh at all the American and western civilization inclusions which were welcome yet highly unexpected. Not to mention Parasite put Oxford on the map if it wasn’t already on your radar. 
I can’t even get into everything in this review. This is definitely a film I need to watch again to even grasp the full weight, but I definitely get what friends meant when they said you can’t really explain the film you just have to see it. And if you’re worried it’s going to be too scary it’s not that kind of horror or satire film. It’s dark yes, but it’s relies more on suspense and tension to build unease. And I’m not entirely surprised it ranks higher than Godfather on the best film list now. Honestly I think I prefer it to The Godfather. Absolutely astonishing and amazing film.
Bong Joon-ho is easily becoming one of my favorite 
directors. There’s hardly any real noticeable flaws in the film. It is also ironically interesting the film’s title alongside Host, which I have yet to see.  I maybe wanted the runtime a little shorter, but that’s more of personal issue on my part, 3 hour or longer films are hard for me to sit through unless it has a lot of action. This certainly deserved all the awards attention it received, but I still feel like The Lighthouse should have been nominated too. This film makes you rethink and question what you think you know or believe? Makes you ask yourself where you fall on the scale of society. Though seriously, if you haven’t seen this film already it is a must and I strongly encourage you to watch it now. 
(Now I want to watch this with US).
2629. Yorum: genuinely speechless. but do i really have to say anything? everything you’ve heard about this film is true. i’m mad at myself for waiting this long to see it but i’m so glad i finally did. please, watch this if you haven’t. it’s a complete fucking masterpiece and i truthfully don’t know how something like this exists.
2630. Yorum: After a long, long, long wait, seeing everyone gush about Parasite on this here site, it has finally hit the British isles, and well worth the wait it certainly was. I was lucky enough to see this with a Q&A with director Bong Joon-ho and one of its stars, and frequent Bong collaborator, Song Kang-ho.
The use of claustrophobic spaces. The constant building in tension, just waiting for something awful to happen in the most unpredictable of ways. The mixing of dark, subtle comedy with horrifying events. Its commentary on class and the disparity in privilege. The setting up of every minor detail only for it to receive an expert pay-off. Its juggling of perspectives through a fine ensemble cast. Its balance of precarious tones, culminating in a pitch perfect ending. Bong makes it all look so effortless.
Not only one of 2019/2020's best films, but one of the best films ever made. It's fantastic to see that Parasite is reaching such a large audience that it may open up a whole world of foreign language cinema to movie-goers that tend to swerve that sort of thing. I can't wait to see Parasite again, and I can't wait to see what Bong Joon-ho does next, because he is seemingly incapable of making a bad film.
2631. Yorum: Caro Bong Joon-ho,
Ti ricordi quando nell'ottobre del 2007 negli splendidi spazi del Castel Sant'Elmo di Napoli, nell'ambito della rassegna “Dongfang:il Cinema dell’Estremo Oriente”, presenziasti a tutte le proiezioni dei tuoi film ed in particolare in occasione della proiezione di "Memories Of Murder" dicesti che la tua intenzione era fare cinema per il pubblico, per la gente, di non volare mai troppo alto, non nelle intenzioni di base almeno ed io ti dissi che sarebbe stato eccitante vedere fino a quanto in alto sarebbe riuscita a volare quella che per me già allora era una delle voci più identitarie e personali del Cinema contemporaneo? Se non ricordi non fa niente, ti basti sapere che ho sempre immaginato, sperato e agognato il massimo da te, anche quando un pochino son rimasto deluso dai tuoi 2 ultimi film ed è proprio per questo che sono tanto felice oggi di vedere che sei rimasto quello di allora ma che oggi voli tanto in alto a dirci quello che ci accade intorno, quello che di brutto e maleodorante ci accade intorno ma lo fai stando in basso, nelle viscere, negli anfratti, dei luoghi e dell'animo e cosi facendo ci elevi tutti in alto a farci capire che è tutto una merda che da sopra scende giù e da giù risale su.
Grazie di tutto, è bello volerti bene e saperti uno di noi, siamo qui e teniamo duro nonostante tutto.
Sinceramente tuo, Nicola
.-. .- .-. --- / -... --- -. --. / .--- --- --- -. -....- .... --- --..--
- .. / .-. .. -.-. --- .-. -.. .. / --.- ..- .- -. -.. --- / -. . .-.. .-.. .----. --- - - --- -... .-. . / -.. . .-.. / ..--- ----- ----- --... / -. . --. .-.. .. / ... .--. .-.. . -. -.. .. -.. .. / ... .--. .- --.. .. / -.. . .-.. / -.-. .- ... - . .-.. / ... .- -. - .----. . .-.. -- --- / -.. .. / -. .- .--. --- .-.. .. --..-- / -. . .-.. .-.. .----. .- -- -... .. - --- / -.. . .-.. .-.. .- / .-. .- ... ... . --. -. .- / .-..-. -.. --- -. --. ..-. .- -. --. ---... .. .-.. / -.-. .. -. . -- .- / -.. . .-.. .-.. .----. . ... - .-. . -- --- / --- .-. .. . -. - . .-..-. --..-- / .--. .-. . ... . -. --.. .. .- ... - .. / .- / - ..- - - . / .-.. . / .--. .-. --- .. . --.. .. --- -. .. / -.. . .. / - ..- --- .. / ..-. .. .-.. -- / . -.. / .. -. / .--. .- .-. - .. -.-. --- .-.. .- .-. . / .. -. / --- -.-. -.-. .- ... .. --- -. . / -.. . .-.. .-.. .- / .--. .-. --- .. . --.. .. --- -. . / -.. .. / .-..-. -- . -- --- .-. .. . ... / --- ..-. / -- ..- .-. -.. . .-. .-..-. / -.. .. -.-. . ... - .. / -.-. .... . / .-.. .- / - ..- .- / .. -. - . -. --.. .. --- -. . / . .-. .- / ..-. .- .-. . / -.-. .. -. . -- .- / .--. . .-. / .. .-.. / .--. ..- -... -... .-.. .. -.-. --- --..-- / .--. . .-. / .-.. .- / --. . -. - . --..-- / -.. .. / -. --- -. / ...- --- .-.. .- .-. . / -- .- .. / - .-. --- .--. .--. --- / .- .-.. - --- --..-- / -. --- -. / -. . .-.. .-.. . / .. -. - . -. --.. .. --- -. .. / -.. .. / -... .- ... . / .- .-.. -- . -. --- / . -.. / .. --- / - .. / -.. .. ... ... .. / -.-. .... . / ... .- .-. . -... -... . / ... - .- - --- / . -.-. -.-. .. - .- -. - . / ...- . -.. . .-. . / ..-. .. -. --- / .- / --.- ..- .- -. - --- / .. -. / .- .-.. - --- / ... .- .-. . -... -... . / .-. .. ..- ... -.-. .. - .- / .- / ...- --- .-.. .- .-. . / --.- ..- . .-.. .-.. .- / -.-. .... . / .--. . .-. / -- . / --. .. .--.- / .- .-.. .-.. --- .-. .- / . .-. .- / ..- -. .- / -.. . .-.. .-.. . / ...- --- -.-. .. / .--. .. ..-- / .. -.. . -. - .. - .- .-. .. . / . / .--. . .-. ... --- -. .- .-.. .. / -.. . .-.. / -.-. .. -. . -- .- / -.-. --- -. - . -- .--. --- .-. .- -. . --- ..--.. / ... . / -. --- -. / .-. .. -.-. --- .-. -.. .. / -. --- -. / ..-. .- / -. .. . -. - . --..-- / - .. / -... .- ... - .. / ... .- .--. . .-. . / -.-. .... . / .... --- / ... . -- .--. .-. . / .. -- -- .- --. .. -. .- - --- --..-- / ... .--. . .-. .- - --- / . / .- --. --- --. -. .- - --- / .. .-.. / -- .- ... ... .. -- --- / -.. .- / - . --..-- / .- -. -.-. .... . / --.- ..- .- -. -.. --- / ..- -. / .--. --- -.-. .... .. -. --- / ... --- -. / .-. .. -- .- ... - --- / -.. . .-.. ..- ... --- / -.. .- .. / - ..- --- .. / ..--- / ..- .-.. - .. -- .. / ..-. .. .-.. -- / . -.. / .-..- / .--. .-. --- .--. .-. .. --- / .--. . .-. / --.- ..- . ... - --- / -.-. .... . / ... --- -. --- / - .- -. - --- / ..-. . .-.. .. -.-. . / --- --. --. .. / -.. .. / ...- . -.. . .-. . / -.-. .... . / ... . .. / .-. .. -- .- ... - --- / --.- ..- . .-.. .-.. --- / -.. .. / .- .-.. .-.. --- .-. .- / -- .- / -.-. .... . / --- --. --. .. / ...- --- .-.. .. / - .- -. - --- / .. -. / .- .-.. - --- / .- / -.. .. .-. -.-. .. / --.- ..- . .-.. .-.. --- / -.-. .... . / -.-. .. / .- -.-. -.-. .- -.. . / .. -. - --- .-. -. --- --..-- / --.- ..- . .-.. .-.. --- / -.-. .... . / -.. .. / -... .-. ..- - - --- / . / -- .- .-.. . --- -.. --- .-. .- -. - . / -.-. .. / .- -.-. -.-. .- -.. . / .. -. - --- .-. -. --- / -- .- / .-.. --- / ..-. .- .. / ... - .- -. -.. --- / .. -. / -... .- ... ... --- --..-- / -. . .-.. .-.. . / ...- .. ... -.-. . .-. . --..-- / -. . --. .-.. .. / .- -. ..-. .-. .- - - .. --..-- / -.. . .. / .-.. ..- --- --. .... .. / . / -.. . .-.. .-.. .----. .- -. .. -- --- / . / -.-. --- ... .. / ..-. .- -.-. . -. -.. --- / -.-. .. / . .-.. . ...- .. / - ..- - - .. / .. -. / .- .-.. - --- / .- / ..-. .- .-. -.-. .. / -.-. .- .--. .. .-. . / -.-. .... . / .-..- / - ..- - - --- / ..- -. .- / -- . .-. -.. .- / -.-. .... . / -.. .- / ... --- .--. .-. .- / ... -.-. . -. -.. . / --. .. ..-- / . / -.. .- / --. .. ..-- / .-. .. ... .- .-.. . / ... ..- .-.-.- /
--. .-. .- --.. .. . / -.. .. / - ..- - - --- --..-- / .-..- / -... . .-.. .-.. --- / ...- --- .-.. . .-. - .. / -... . -. . / . / ... .- .--. . .-. - .. / ..- -. --- / -.. .. / -. --- .. --..-- / ... .. .- -- --- / --.- ..- .. / . / - . -. .. .- -- --- / -.. ..- .-. --- / -. --- -. --- ... - .- -. - . / - ..- - - --- .-.-.-
... .. -. -.-. . .-. .- -- . -. - . / - ..- --- --..-- / -. .. -.-. --- .-.. .-
2632. Yorum: Un-Follow Me Now, This Is Gonna Be the Only Thing I Tweet About For The Next Week. Ive Wanted This For Years Fuck. What The Fuck.
2633. Yorum: song kang-ho has one of those faces that just makes you go, "yeah, class conflict will destroy our society as retribution for its injustices
2634. Yorum: Yes, it good. So effortlessly good, that I think it all seemed a bit *too* easy while watching, though thinking about it now there's very little to fault. As with Sorry To Bother You, was struck by the fact this features the rare twist that genuinely shakes up the film and challenges how you think you understand its world.
2635. Yorum: “I caught the bouquet of a bitch I’d never met.”
The true horror of capitalism is how quickly one turns against their fellow man given the slightest opportunity to rise above their station!!!
2636. Yorum: yeah.....im logging absolutely nothing else
2637. Yorum: It's quite good! Bong's best work this decade for sure. Takes a little while to get into high gear, and the epilogue is wholly unnecessary (one key advantage Burning has over this is that the former ends at the EXACT right spot it should—that and the sociopolitical commentary is much sharper), but fans of Bong's typical tone-hopping and genre-bending are in for a treat.
2638. Yorum: these kind of films are always so nerve-wracking for me. i watch them at a snail's pace, i pace around. this is not a demanding film is this regard -- there are others far more unbearable. but the tension nonetheless makes it hard to breathe, the possibility space nearly endless, the tangible infinite beyond each and every interaction. but most films, including this one, give me the tools towards relief. to reconcile the events in an appropriate space. these manufactured spaces with which to engage! this is no more subtle than snowpiercer or even US for that matter, but peele's second feature feels far more ambitious than this familial type of play. parasite is a film that asks you to engage with the obvious, a response to the responses to any notion of class consciousness. it's a plea for fantasies again, and the cycle repeats. a dream born out of grace, born out of violence. the past is dead, but story is still alive.
2639. Yorum: 
2640. Yorum: what is the best film of 2019 and why is it parasite
2641. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is a complete masterpiece, arguably a perfect film. It’s smart and painstakingly well thought out. It takes you through a story with tonal shifts that are subtle in that they don’t feel wrong or misplaced, but unequivocal when you realize what is happening - and even after the realization, you still don’t know what’s going to happen next. Emotionally dazzling, full of wit, and crowned with an overarching theme that left me in a stunned silence long after the credits finished rolling, Parasite has everything you could ask for in a great film, and then some. This one is gonna sit at the forefront of my mind longer than what I’d consider comfortably.
2642. Yorum: Had to watch this masterpiece again just to dab on the Americans.
2643. Yorum: Movie so good it makes you horny
2644. Yorum: “You can’t go wrong with no plans”.
Yeah this was mad i could see what was gonna happen as soon as the old housekeeper fell down the stairs and hit her head. Gonna let that scarface donny loose. Shot well looks clean. probably a smaller budget i’m guessing. When min got hit twice with that big ass rock bro should have been dead from that… 
So he buys the house cuz he loves it so much even from everything that’s happened in it is kinda odd but fair play. Last like 25 minutes was good as fuck and should watch if you haven’t. The title fits so well it’s kinda scary.
2645. Yorum: five years of parasite. so many hollow “eat the rich” movies have followed but none come close to bong joon-ho. we are absolutely running up mickey 17 at the box office get ready!!
2646. Yorum: Omg what an amazing film. I don’t think I appreciated all the details that just add so much to this masterpiece the first time I watched this. From the beautiful colors in imagery to the characters of both families. An ending that just captivates you. Absolutely stunning work all around!
2647. Yorum: With a delicious black comedy edge, some surprising jolts of heartfelt emotion, and a violent throat punch when your least expecting it, Parasite is a movie that keeps you engaged and guessing.
2648. Yorum: For my project, I am looking at Korean cinema. I had originally planned on writing about Oldboy by the legendary director Park Chan-wook but whilst it is certainly an amazing piece of film which I did enjoy greatly, I also found it seriously disturbing.
I then went on to watch Lady Vengeance, where I sadly had the same issue. I didn't appreciate the movie enough to talk about it in a way I wanted.
I appreciate that I don’t need to love every single film I watch or review, but I also know that there needs to be something that really grabs me; usually this is something visual or where I learn a lesson I can take away with me. I scrolled hopefully through my endless watchlist where I was reminded of Parasite.
Parasite, the movie that deserves all its praise. All I knew about the movie was how well it did at the Oscars and how critically acclaimed the ending was. I have been eager to watch this movie for ages so this project gave me the perfect excuse.
The performances in this movie are incredibly compelling, you get a feel for their situations and a powerful understanding and insight in to how each character thinks. You are given two families, both on different sides of the economic spectrum, who want what each other have. The poor household, known as the Kims, have a very tight and loving family, but they live in absolute poverty and wish for a better, richer life. The rich household, known as the Parks, have very wealthy lives, but wish for a family that are close and care more for on another.
This intricate story of two very separate lives, leads to the Kims becoming assistants and teachers to the Parks. Here is where the two worlds collide and when the Kims get a taste of this rich, much desired lifestyle, they become desperate to infiltrate the Parks lives; much like a parasite. 
No family is perfect, every family wants something, even if you are wealthy and it appears you have it all. I feel I can relate to this factor, not through the idea of wealth but through the idea that family is the most important thing, so you must respect it. There is nothing wrong with wanting more but you must want it for the right reasons. You can try to change things, but sometimes this may only make things worse, as this film portrays.
The film uses its music in such a way it can make a very calm scene feel extremely tense. There were times I found that a scene felt a little predictable, but somehow that just added to why it was so perfect. The film also has subtle uses of comedy which brings more of a variety to its script and also helps build the tension. There are scenes that make you want to put your head in your hands, dreading and overthinking what might happen next but gripped with anticipation.
The movie is also known for its power of symbols. The viewing stone which is given as a gift at the beginning of the movie to the Kim family, is said to bring wealth and happiness to the family. It reminded me of the metaphor 'light at the end of a tunnel'. The stone is more of a curse however, it shows an aspiration for wealth and hope for a period of time, but it only brings pain. Metaphorically and literally.
Another interesting theme is its Cinematic Language in contrast with spoken language. This movie earned recognition around the world, earning the Oscar for Best Picture, and I believe it's down to this contrast. Its production design, cinematography, hair and makeup and its blocking make parasite this gripping masterpiece.
The movie made me feel thoroughly uncomfortable throughout its runtime….but in a good way. It was like a rollercoaster ride in pitch dark, full of unexpected turns for 132 minutes; every turn oscillating between tragedy, comedy and unexpected twists. It was incredible to watch and I was on the edge of my seat.
I can't emphasis enough how good this is, so good its now one of my favourite movies. I hope this review makes you want to go away and watch for yourself, or even rewatch. Thank You
2649. Yorum: WOW, THIS IS A MASTERPIECE
2650. Yorum: masterpiece.
2651. Yorum: NUMBER #4: TOP FAVORITES IN 2024 - PARASITE
Favorite scene: The Living Room Fight
Favorite song: All Of The Soundtrack
Favorite actor/actress: All Of The Actors/Actresses
Rating: 9.8/10
2652. Yorum: 
2653. Yorum: “It’s the same. They all smell the same”
This is a genius movie brilliantly mixed with suspense and comedy with allegories of classism. Bong Joon-ho is one of the best directors of our times and Hong Kyung-pyo is a brilliant cinematographer! 'Parasite' is a beautiful movie.
The acting is phenomenal! The symbolism is all over the place, the rain, the house , and the rock!
“You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan.”
2654. Yorum: The fact this story begins with the family struggling to get a wifi connection is brilliant.
At some point I only gave this 4-and-a-half stars. I can't remember why but I'm fixing that now. It's great and you probably already know that. It brings those classic noirs to life again where at a certain point everything begins to go wrong and no one is clean. The ending is like a horror movie massacre and even the survivors never escape the terror. They're still trapped in the basement of late-stage capitalism.
2655. Yorum: me volvi loca
2656. Yorum: Hadn't rewatched this since it was in theaters. Still a certified banger.
2657. Yorum: They like the word metaphorical in this movie.
2658. Yorum: Mache Dinge werden mit der Zeit besser. Somit hebe ich ihm einen halben Stern hoch Richtung Meisterwerk!
Klassenunterschiede zwischen einer armen und einer wohlhabenden Familie kommen zum Vorschein. Als Ki-woo einen Posten als Nachhilfelehrer bei den reichen Parks bekommt, sorgt er dafür, dass seine Eltern und seine Schwester ebenfalls eingestellt werden. Die Familie profitiert vom luxuriösen Lebensstil der Parks, doch dann stoßen sie auf ein dunkles Geheimnis. Es kommt zu einem Zwischenfall und die Situation läuft aus dem Ruder. (Quelle: Google)
Er ist einfach wunderschön gefilmt, so viele Szenen, einfach zum an die Wand hängen. Sieht so sauber und clean gedreht aus, obwohl wir uns an dreckigen wie schnicken Orten bewegen. Eine Story die einfach zu gut ist und bis zu ihrem Finale sich kontinuierlich steigert. Ihr seht schon, komme vom Staunen nicht heraus, bitte nachholen falls nicht schon geschehen! 
——————————————————————————-
Things get better with time. So I give it half a star in the direction of a masterpiece!
Class differences between a poor and a wealthy family come to light. When Ki-woo gets a job as a tutor at the rich Parks, he makes sure that his parents and sister are also hired. The family benefits from the Parks' luxurious lifestyle, but then they stumble upon a dark secret. An incident occurs and the situation gets out of hand. (Source: Google)
It's just beautifully filmed, so many scenes, just to hang on the wall. It looks so neat and cleanly shot, even though we're moving around in dirty and nasty places. A story that is just too good and builds up to its finale. As you can see, I can't stop being amazed, please catch up if you haven't already done so
2659. Yorum: RIP Lee Sun kyun
2660. Yorum: me arrepiento tanto de ver este peliculon tan tarde.. bueno q dios me perdone!
tengo dos cosas para decir
1. bastante ricos pero no tenían ni una cámara en esa casa 
2. todo se pudo haber arreglado tan fácil, acaso nadie sabe guardar secretos??
2661. Yorum: Wow. I understand the hype and I’m now a follower of the great Bong Joon-Ho. This film really lives up to the Comedy/Thriller category it was put into. I read somewhere that at the exact half-way point of the movie, is when the shift in genre happens. It goes from fun to scary real quick. The movie looks great, the acting is good and we get to follow a fun and unique set of characters. My personal favorite part of Parasite is, of course, the ending. It’s pure chaos and I love that in movies. It’s a perfect way to send off our story.
2662. Yorum: damn

bugs really fuckin suck
2663. Yorum: babado fortissimo
2664. Yorum: "Take care until then. So long."
2665. Yorum: 
2666. Yorum: someone in my film class complained about having to watch this…RED FLAG
2667. Yorum: No plan is the best plan.
2668. Yorum: Beautiful story telling with an amazing plot. Parasite truly lived up to what I thought it was going to be. The one thing I found myself wishing about this film, was if the film capitalized on potential horror moments. However this does not change how good this film was, and what it accomplishes.
2669. Yorum: parasite is one of the most artistic films i have seen. so much admiration has been put into the making of this film by bong joon-ho. the themes of greed and class are explored in great lengths.
this masterpiece leaves you thrilled yet also moved by the journey of the metaphorical plot. the performances by all cast members were constructed and delivered flawlessly. the recognition and awards parasite gained were so deserved. it’s just perfect in every single way.
2670. Yorum: My 10th viewing 
Such an undeniably well-crafted film. I’ve always loved the way it unites casual movie fans and l cinephiles alike. Although, of course people with an understanding of the craft will maybe get a tad more out of it. Regardless, kind of a perfect film (especially to show to people who haven’t seen it). Really good storytelling. Clever & brilliant. 
Cancel the American remake tbh. We don’t need it.
2671. Yorum: You know me, I was very late to this party (not the party that happens in this film 👀) do I regret being late… yes I do, But you know what. It’s better late than never. 
I rated this 4 stars as yes it’s definitely a brilliant film, I just felt sometimes the pacing felt off and it was losing me in certain moments but other than that. Brilliant. 
This film has so many damn layers to it, one moment your like oh, then the next moment your like OH. It literally spins you around and takes you down different routes you think you have made it to the right track and then BAM all of a sudden we’ve got plot twists galore. 
So gooood!
2672. Yorum: need to do this at elon musks house fr
2673. Yorum: ok, yeah. i get it now.
2674. Yorum: “All you’ll have to do, is just walk up the stairs”
A belt of trust indeed.
2675. Yorum: One of the best films of all time. There's a moment in this film where the genre flips so hard and Bong Joon Ho takes you on an emotional ride that you just can't be prepared for.
2676. Yorum: Top 250 - #74
-
-
I know it's become such a cliché to say but it really is hard to say something that hasn't already been said about Parasite, having been hyped to death these last two years not just by lovers of film but casual audiences too. It's that rare film that has completely transcended taste boundaries, to get everybody interested in what it has to say. I think it's the closest we'll get to a universally 'liked' film, at least for the next few decades. It's pure Bong Joon-Ho, which is to say it's a lot of things at once. The director has a restless mind and his films don't settle on tone or the restraints of conventional storytelling. Mixing and defying standard genre conventions, Parasite tells the story of a lower class family, the Kim's, who struggle to make ends meet. After a family friend gives their son an opportunity to find a high paying job at the Park's, an upper class family's house, the Kim's begin to slowly infest this family by taking on different jobs to secure a place at their mansion, while pretending they don't all know each other. There are no antagonists in Parasite, no villains, only people compromised by a system – nevertheless we're meant to sympathise with the Kim's, despite their actions. The Kim family are a united front from the start but the Park's are in every sense the opposites of them. They're financially priviliged but also detached, naive and ignorant. Like most of the rich they're selfish and ignorant, immune to the hardships of those below them, either unaware of the tragedies they go through in their daily life or unwilling to do something meaningful about it. The film is equally horrifying as it is funny (well, actually, probably more horrifying since these are real world issues), with each scene being a perfect mix of tension and stakes, with this dark comedic edge, all while embracing a multi-genre edge that gives it a wonderful unpredictability. Such a poignant and, sadly, true depiction of class and the way social and economic inequality pushes people to the point of desperation, robs them of the want or opportunity to show empathy and compassion and forcing them to get crafty and vicious in order to just survive, treating even the other workers in their position as a dispensible competitor in their quest for, well, more.
2677. Yorum: Ultimo film visto sul grande schermo prima del lockdown di marzo 2020. Clamoroso. Uno di quelli che mi ha toccata nel profondo. Completo, sensazionale e con un twist che ribalta l’intera situazione. Fino a quel momento vediamo un film geniale e tecnicamente ben fatto, ma dalla seconda metà in poi ci troviamo di fronte a un capolavoro.

(If you want to deepen: masters of contemporary South Korean, Japanese and Chinese cinema)
2678. Yorum: 
2679. Yorum: is it a chimpanzee?? 
no it’s a self portrait :)
2680. Yorum: Finally FINALLY watched this and took it off my “films I’m ashamed I haven’t seen yet” list (it’s the little things 🥰). With the summaries and reviews I had heard since this came out, I was completely surprised watching this. This didn’t include spoon-fed social commentary, like everyone made it seem? Fantastic film.
2681. Yorum: I watched 15 minutes of The Godfather, then I got bored so I decided to rewatch this masterpiece!
2682. Yorum: a hyper-stylized divide, playing wonderfully into the pulpy theatrics, feverishly pitching its anthem of social discontent down a spiral of ever-increasing intensities, and on purely academic grounds, the effect is definitely conveyed
emotionally, though...?
there's a welcome acknowledgement of poverty's most damaging realization, that there's no escape.. the desire to break the constant cycle is certainly readily felt, but the actual economic stasis found within the lower echelon of wealth is never meaningfully explored. instead, it's cartoonishly nodded at in an almost sterile manner, almost as if spawned from the imaginations of the top percentage being critiqued, lacking offense but leaving little to latch onto
still, as a dimly-toned comedy, it sinks its eager fangs into masses fittingly above its weight, and that's something to admire, even if the commentary floats on the surface
2683. Yorum: I got a chance to see this in the cinema a couple of weeks before it was released here in Sweden, and I hadn’t actually seen it since then!
And what can I say about this film that hasn’t already been said...? It’s so damn amazing, for sure one of the greatest films in recent memory. It pulled of one of the best and most unexpected twists as well, which I NEVER saw coming when I first watched this back in 2019.
2684. Yorum: Ignorance is the greatest luxury. Parasite has got to be one of my favorite movie titles ever. I'd forgotten how depressing and disturbing this gets, too. It's really satisfying to catch smaller lines the second time around, like how Mr. Kim's last two jobs folded.
I viewed the black and white version on Criterion's new release. It's gorgeous and adds a lot of emphasis on form and framing, both uneasily rigid and sharp at the Park home, that gradually loosen into the dilapidated lower classes. Of course, I was reminded even more of High and Low with this version.
2685. Yorum: It’s been some time... life was so much better when this came out. I mis the time when Bong was all the hype.
2686. Yorum: “this is so metaphorical!”
this movie is still fantastic😁
Bong Joon-ho amazes me in every way. ‘Parasite’ totally deserved best picture, I’m so glad it won! 
<Harry Potter deathly hallows pt2
> my mom’s picking😎
2687. Yorum: My son watched it with me and won’t go to the basement alone anymore. Who’ll get my beer now??????
?
2688. Yorum: If you didn’t like this movie then it’s a you problem, not the film’s problem.
2689. Yorum: Sometimes even I think we should all chill about the thing we all love.... but noT TODAYYYY!
2690. Yorum: If I had all this I would be kinder.
You know why this is so fucking good. It's occasionally very funny, the acting is amazing, the cinematography is outstanding, it's well written, and thoroughly entertaining.
2691. Yorum: 
2692. Yorum: Pretty sure in 50 years, assuming we haven’t been wiped off the planet by climate change or aliens, this will be required viewing for film students, and I’m really excited for all of them to experience it.
2693. Yorum: Holy fucking shit man nobody could have prepared me for this. This will stand the test of time.
2694. Yorum: it’s a masterpiece luv
2695. Yorum: choi wooshik:
me: call me old fashioned, but i was raised to take care of my husband. make his plate every night, wash his work clothes for him, make sure he’s up for work the next morning, always have a clean house for him to come home to, etc. and that’s exactly the wife i’ll be
2696. Yorum: Act like you own the place 
greatest tagline to ever exist
2697. Yorum: While technically proficient and well-acted, in the end the movie is a vile and nihilistic waste of time.
The rich family are cardboard cutouts and the poor family are inexplicably skilled at deception (and other things) while lacking a motivation for their depraved actions.
It doesn't really have anything to say - its "social commentary" is vapid and one-dimensional. I must admit I enjoyed parts of it but the ending in particular was jarring, disturbing, and devoid of humanity.
Not surprised this won "Best Picture" given the perverse, anti-life lack of morality Hollywood embodies. Should have known, given I found "Snowpiercer" to be an unwatchable mess.
BEST PICTURES RANKED
2698. Yorum: wow.... the impact is still intact. probably the most important movie i've seen these years, this is literally a cultural reset. bong joon-ho puted a way too-high standard to filmmaking since now on. the palme d'or and the four academy awards are in good hands.
2699. Yorum: i am soooo late i feel like everything’s been said before but i will still say that this movie deserved all the attention and awards it got.
2700. Yorum: I don’t know how... but this actually gets better after every watch.
2701. Yorum: Film 22

Better the second time!
Me watching Parasite, knowing every forthcoming twist:
“Wow, this is so metaphorical” 
2702. Yorum: Watched it for the third time...
Can I give a movie six stars on this site? 🍑
Greatest Films of All Time
2703. Yorum: In a couple of years I'll probably rewatch this and wonder what the heck I was thinking, rating this at "only" four stars. It's a case where I had a different set of expectations about what the story would be, and couldn't adjust on the fly as it became obvious that those expectations were wrong. I still had a good time with Parasite, but it was an unbalanced enjoyment as I waited for an element that never came.
"Geez, Jacob, what the heck were you waiting for? What didn't Parasite deliver?"
Actual parasites? Like, from the director of The Host and Snowpiercer, a film with parasites would totally make sense. Granted, I found it weird that a niche International film about parasites was getting so much mainstream attention, but, like, Bong Joon-ho is really good, so I basically shrugged that confusion off.
Of course, in hindsight, the title totally makes sense, even without little squiggly grotesqueries.
Parasite gives us a family down on their luck. Both parents are unemployed, with two teenage (maybe early-20) children--a son and a daughter--similarly without work. They odd-job around, but mostly life is a struggle. When one of the son's friends gets him a tutoring job for a wealthy family, he starts seeing opportunity--not just for himself, but for his entire family.
The great thing about Parasite is that the premise doesn't take a lot of suspension of disbelief. Like, even without COVID-19 goggles, it's not hard to envision an entire family out of work. Nothing about the way this family takes over a wealthy family feels like a reach. Some little white lies, a touch of fraud, what could go wrong?
But of course the greatest thing about Parasite is that it plays out in a brash, unexpected way. Sure, once we realize what our protagonists are doing--the tangled web of lies they lay--we know it's going to come crashing down. It has to. Yet Bong Joon-ho sends that crash down a much different path; different yet amazing like a Rubik cube you thought couldn't be solved suddenly snapping into place.
But the most greatest thing about Parasite is that it makes our job infiltrating protagonists so goddamned likable. Even in the opening scene--where the WiFi network they'd been using gets password-protected and have to try and find a new open network--they just ooze appeal. It's a bit of a downbeat appeal, but nonetheless they're fun to spend time with. Especially the daughter, who feels born to be pulling scams. She's pretending to be an art teacher for the wealthy family's son. Granted, she's already something of an artist herself--she's not trying to teach a language she doesn't know or anything--but the therapeutic/psychoanalysis element she brings into her shtick is a con. After her first day, when she blows the mind of the wealthy family with her insights, her brother asks her how she did it. Spent a bit of time reading articles online, then made up the rest. She gives the film a casual swagger, one that carries the runtime.
Even writing the film up makes me excited for a rewatch. It's fun. I'm looking forward to how a viewing with proper expectations goes down.
2704. Yorum: 
2705. Yorum: "Sabe qual tipo de plano nunca falha? Não fazer plano nenhum."
Eu nem sei por onde começo a falar desse filme, são muitos pontos incríveis. Mesmo que pessoalmente eu não goste tanto desse estilo um pouco mais cômico de algumas cenas, não teve como não ficar impressionado com a qualidade elevadíssima de praticamente tudo.
A fotografia aprofundando com as luzes e cores a diferença entre as classes dos personagens. Diversos detalhes do roteiro, em que pontos e objetos que pareciam insignificantes momentaneamente voltavam com grande importância para a história. O retrato social que foi mostrado -muito importante atualmente- com diversas metáforas, tendo a chuva como a mais explícita (além das escadas, linhas, alturas), e pessoalmente minha preferida. A atuação, principalmente do Sang Kang-Ho (o pai da família protagonista) também me impressionou muito.
Além de tudo, vejo esse filme com muitíssima importância por ser mais um filme em língua não inglesa que ganha popularidade e destaque nas premiações, mas infelizmente ainda sendo minoria.
No mais, algumas pequenas coisas me incomodaram, como algumas conveniências para criar tensão que não funcionaram comigo, como a cena em que o pai sai de baixo da mesa, e na mesma hora o filho do casal mais rico acende as luzes, seus pais acordam, e ninguém vê o homem deitado no chão. Essa cena entre outras parece forçar um suspense de que aconteceria algo que sabíamos que não ia acontecer, logo não funcionou pra mim.
Lendo depois sobre essas cenas eu entendi o motivo, e é achei incrível também, é genial, mostra que a família, entre essa e outras cenas, nunca olha para baixo. Muito bom, só não é meu jeito favorito pra assistir. 
Outras surpresas funcionaram bem, e esses detalhes e outras conveniências não deixam o filme de maneira nenhuma menos digno de tudo que conquistou e vai conquistar, só não funcionou tanto comigo e vale reconhecer isso.
2706. Yorum: It's official - I totally understand the hype behind Parasite. Wow! I can't wait to watch it all over again. I need to watch more of the cast and crew's work. Please, Hollywood, don't remake this!
2707. Yorum: Mate... I-
Had astronomical expectations for this, and holy shit, this actually met them. Truly at a loss for words.
2708. Yorum: Seriously, how does this movie keep getting better with every viewing?
2709. Yorum: "hell, if i had all this money, i'd be nice too."
BEST FILM OF THE DECADE. PERIOD.
2710. Yorum: 2019 Ranked: Here (In case you missed it)

I know the last time you saw me review this near perfect film was a long time ago in a galaxy far far away (I think September), but I have finally rewatched Best Picture Winner Parasite in IMAX at AMC. Took me long enough, sooooo good man I love this movie and to think we could have a film this good and have it only be number 4 of the year.
Yes 2019 was the best year for film of the decade. 2014 and 2016 come closest we but none reach the heights of 2019. 
9.7/10 good shit.
2711. Yorum: wild.
2712. Yorum: The first time I watched this I loved it, but this time I was actually blown away. This movie is so good.
2713. Yorum: most of the audience collectively groaned when ki-woo and da-hye first awkwardly kissed, and i was just thinking, “i felt that”
2714. Yorum: dude fuck this movie was so tense it was PERFECT. incredible build, incredible crescendo, incredible toll on the viewer. if youre reading this, GO WATCH the Host YOU WILL NOT REGRET
2715. Yorum: in black and white
i love watching this movie made up of an audience where the majority of people haven’t seen it. it’s so much fun to know that something batshit crazy is about to happen and most of the people around you have zero idea. also i forgot that this was in black and white several times during this because of how strongly i got pulled into the story
2716. Yorum: I don't want to say too much about Parasite simply because the twists and turns within it should be discovered with very little knowledge as one watches it for the first time.
Hype can be a poisoned chalice sometimes, with a film very easily not living up to months of great reviews and never ending award wins, but Parasite is the real deal.
Its ability to make you laugh one moment and then have you gasping with absolute shock indicates that we are in the presence of a master storyteller, with an intricate satirical social thriller that to say contains sudden tonal shifts is to put it mildly.
Suffice to say, it is a masterpiece that will make you afraid of and crave peaches at the same time.
2717. Yorum: 
2718. Yorum: oh my god
2719. Yorum: I want Bong to drink all the alcohol he wants now. He deserves it.
2720. Yorum: 🗣🗣FOUR TIME ACADEMY AWARD WINNING PARASITE🗣🗣
WE LOVE TO FUCKING SEE IT.
2721. Yorum: HOLY FUCK!!!!!! IT WON!!!!!!!!
2722. Yorum: I loved every second of this film. The cinematography is on point! Such a beautiful film and such a great plot. A MUST SEE
2723. Yorum: I really love the Black & White version; "It's so great."
There's a deeper level of utterly depraved, overwhelming chaos that forefronts Parasite without the filters of reds, blues, yellows and greens to hide it. I've seen this film four times already, so going into my fifth watch I basically expected the same movie just without colour, but I've never been more terrified on a rewatch of anything ever before.
Every shot has a face, every face has a shadow, and every shadow does nothing but portray a sickening sense of secrets unknown. Even shots that are framed quite brightly still have some area of darkness that goes unregistered in the original cut. So take out all the colour and you have a hole in the frame. A gaping, terrifying hole that seeps into your conscious without rhythm, road or rhyme.
Darkness isn't the only thing that frights either, the light in this cut is harsh, cold and unforgiving. Specifically, there's a scene where lightning strikes as Ki-jeong is shouting. This moment is a shock in the original, but when it occurs here the entire screen is completely blinding for a whole second with a very faint outline of Park So-dam yelling, and it is absorbingly unnerving in all the best ways. So essentially the Black & White version does not let black nor white be your friend; all alone in the dark and on your own in the light.
Even the comedy feels different. The film is still hilarious, but it feels more intentional, like a surgeon (who looks nothing like a surgeon) telling doctor-doctor jokes to calm the patient before slashing his flesh apart. Oh, and this surgeon forgot to stitch you up again.
If I could describe this Parasite as anything, I'd remind you of the feeling in the wake of a late-afternoon nap. When the light from the sky has disappeared without explanation, when the time is entirely unknown, when the inside lights are aloof, when reason is distant, when you just don't know what the fuck to think.
Either that or I've just seen this movie so many times I've gone mad, I'm open for debate.
2724. Yorum: 2019: RANKED New No 1
Second time viewing and I enjoyed it a lot more. Seeing the details about the big reveal was a lot of fun. Everything is covered quite well. I love details, the look and feel in everything. The pacing was also quicker than before. This really added to the enjoyment of the film.
2725. Yorum: The Peach scheme is by far the best scene because it both concludes & crescendos to the dark comedy part of the movie (and pretty much seals the Kim's fate) and then we get to the film's much darker layer. Moon-gwang responding to Chung-sook's "we're not needy" with "but WE'RE needy!" Somehow made me tear up watching this again. Maybe knowing about the violent and unsettling tragedy that unfolds after those lines are said made me emotional I guess. If this doesn't win Best Picture on Sunday, the academy really are just for locals.
2726. Yorum: everything i expected and so much more
2727. Yorum: It wasn’t until I watched it a second time that I realized how tightly written this script is. There is not a second or line wasted in this entire film. Every single shot has a purpose, every single edit is meaningful, and everything flows melliflously. 
Bong Joon-Ho has crafted one of the masterpieces of the 21st century, a technical and narrative feat of filmmaking sure to delight even the most casual of viewers. 
This is the kind of movie that inspires filmmakers, the kind of movie that will be studied in classrooms, and the kind of movie that will be remembered for a long time.
2728. Yorum: this may not be my favourite of the decade (although close) it is undoubtedly the best.
2729. Yorum: After months of hearing nothing but good things about Parasite and having missed seeing it at the cinema, i finally picked up the Blu-Ray for the film. My first concern before watching it was, will all this hype the movie had built up ruin my experience. I'm happy to say and will respectfully admit that Parasite is pure cinema and an absolute masterpiece, it's movies like this that make me want to become a filmmaker. Bong Joon-ho has crafted a film that is nothing short of a cinematic achievement.
From the very start we are shown this family living in a semi-basement, poor as you can get, trying to get through life and you can't help but find this family endearing and very quickly i got behind these characters, hoping something good happens to them. The film is brilliant in the way it slowly draws you in, the first scene establishes the situation of this family and for the rest of the first half we follow this family as they integrate themselves into working for a higher class family. The sequences that showed the family plotting every detail and action just so they could all work for this rich family were some of the most entertaining scenes in the film. By the halfway point we see the family at their highest point and then in the 2nd half of the film, everything goes to shit.
The film quite expertly pulls off many different genres. In the first half we get this comedy-drama where the funny moments were funny and when the film wanted you to feel something i felt it and then in the 2nd half we get this darker thriller-horror type of movie where everything became super stressful. The whole movie was like a rollercoaster and by the end it was super satisfying.
The film technically is just amazing and my favourite aspect would probably be the editing, the way it pulled out different emotions from me and constantly had me at full attention. I watched this movie with a friend and this was both our first viewing of the film and we were so constantly stunned that after particular sequences in the film we actually paused the film and talked about what we just viewed and discussed in appreciation the brilliance of that particular scene. We were constantly floored and by the end we were speechless.
In the end this movie was perfect, from the superb acting from everyone involved to all the technicalities and of course the phenomenal direction by Bong Joon-ho. I was pleasantly surprised to like this as much as i did and all the hype surrounding this movie was totally worth it. I can finally understand why people consider this to be spectacular and i have to agree, this is one of the best films of all time.
2730. Yorum: 
2731. Yorum: UK preview screening followed by Q&A with Director Bong Joon-Ho and leading actor Song Kang-Ho
There is a genuine concern here...what do I say about this film that hasn't been said a million times before on here and all over the world. Bong created a transcendent film, one that can be enjoyed in all four corners of the world. An overwhelming success that has left the majority satisfied with the final product.
Did I quake with fear?
Yes
Did I shudder with excitement?
Hell yea
Did my skin crawl with anticipation and suspense?
Let me tell you...
Just divinely directed. Masterfully made
Oscar Talk
Should it win an Oscar?
Duhh
What for?
All the categories...even the ones it wasn't nominated for
Was Song Kang-Ho snubbed?
More than Adam Sandler. Lets not give this one to Joaquin or Leo. Pryce is a big yes for me and Antonio has been needing an Oscar for a while now...But Adam Driver guyssss
I think 1917 will sadly win best picture which is good because the writer was on the same college course as me...but this is nominated....PARASITE is nominated

PARASITE MUST WIN

The film has 177 awards...lets make it at least 180
2732. Yorum: Geez between this, Knives Out, Joker, Ready or Not, Hustlers, and Us... 2019 really was the year of Eat the Rich cinema.
2733. Yorum: Parasite is a work of art. It somehow broke into the spot of the number 1 highest rated film of all time on letterboxd. That alone makes it a phenomenon. But, Parasite is more than just the highest rated film on letterboxd, it’s a message. It’s a message to everyone. A message to the large corporations, a message to the small indie companies. It’s saying that even a film that is in a completely different language can be heard and understood by everyone. It has made 161.7 million dollars worldwide as of this moment which is, if you couldn’t tell, an insanely huge amount of money. This is a new moment in the world of filmmaking. It’s not 100 million dollar blockbuster cinematic universe superhero film, it’s an 11 million dollar foreign drama/comedy/thriller. It’s insane to me that this can get much traction at all. The film is fantastic and has well deserved attention. I’m just so happy a film this good is finally getting noticed by large amounts of people. Obviously, it deserves to win the title of Best Picture, but it’s probably not going to happen. Though, we can look forward to more love for great films from all different countries in the future.
2734. Yorum: Mom and I will be in the yard.
Because the sunshine is so nice there. 
An unprecedented, unrivaled masterpiece. Bong Joon Ho’s Parasite is a story of life and consequences. It’s been a very long time since I’ve seen a film like this one, a story told with such passion, energy, and truth. Parasite grabs you from the beginning and never lets you go. Bong’s characters live in a world defined by division between classes - I felt it intentional that we never see the exact route between the houses of these families. They live in the same city, yet worlds apart. A basement apartment versus an idyllic house on a hilltop, existing just miles from each other. This is a masterful storytelling experience. The film as a whole transforms itself halfway through, into a film of pure suspense - ultimately becoming a sad realization of the effects of our characters’ choices. It’s a purely phenomenal film from start to finish, beautiful in every single aspect and honest in every way. Wildly unpredictable and yet perfectly controlled by Bong. With Parasite, I feel he’s cemented himself as one of the master storytellers of his lifetime. This film is one of the all time greats, and I haven’t felt like that about a movie in a very long time. Just, totally, utterly perfect and astonishing from start to finish. Parasite is the best film of the year.
2735. Yorum: the fact that i’ve only just got to see this and it was STILL through an advanced screening is absolutely criminal. obviously awards shows don’t mean shit, but i really really want this to win big, just to shove it in the face of people who pigeonhole and restrict films and believe that ‘foreign language’ is a genre in itself. this film is running laps around all of you, and it’s not even out of breath
2736. Yorum: 97
You know, I had my doubts. I usually don’t know what to make of massively critically acclaimed movies. I usually end up a little down on them, maybe because of all the hype I’ve built up for myself. This has happened more than I’d like to admit, even though I try to go into every movie with an open mind. But Parasite...holy shit. Ho. Ly. Shit. This movie is just absolutely, undeniably fantastic. No matter how you spin it. Are you a fan of great cinematography? How about great directing? Great performances? Great set design? A great story? A great thrill? Well thought out themes? If you answered yes to any of those questions, Parasite just might be the movie for you, because it’s all of those things and more. Bong Joon-ho deserves the Oscar for Best Director, and in my heart of hearts I believe he has a chance at taking it home. He didn’t just create a movie, he created an absolute experience, and I love when someone can do that. It’s difficult.
The buildup to the ending feels clear now that I’ve watched the entire thing, but I had absolutely no idea what the movie was leading to. That’s a paradox and a half, yeah? But it absolutely works, thematically and considering the buildup as a whole. There are so many scenes here I can’t help but call absolutely fantastic that it feels wrong to list them, considering this movie is better if you go in cold, but just know that the vast majority of this movie is an absolute masterpiece and a half. But at the very least I’ll say this; the thrills, the unrelenting suspense that Bong Joon-ho provides are unlike any 2019 movie I’ve seen, and it’s very nearly unmatched in general. Parasite is truly brilliant and deserving of more than a few of the Oscars it’s nominated for.
2737. Yorum: 100
We had a late birthday celebration for me tonight with steaks, ice cream cake, and this. Will update with potential worthwhile reactions post film. Still tied for my favorite of 2019 with Lighthouse. Bong is a master.
Main notable reaction: as soon as the doorbell rang, you know which time if you’ve seen it... my fam all leaned forward and started pulling their hair. When REDACTED said “would you want to come see?” They exploded. 
Side reaction: they all loved it and were very thankful I spent my bday celebration showing them a great and original film. None of them had seen anything about it other than the fact that it was nominated. 
This film is the epitome of Pacha from Emperor making his hand gestures.
2738. Yorum: what a movie.
it isn’t every day that you come across a movie like this, a practically flawless one in my opinion actually.
parasite is a stylish, one-of-a-kind film that takes so many unexpected turns that will leave you on the edge of your seat. in short, it’s a masterpiece.
2739. Yorum: “It’s a chimpanzee, right?”
“A self-portrait.”
Yeah, um, like, I dunno. This was...easily one of the best movies ever made?
I'm so glad I didn't watch any reviews, see any trailers, or read a synopsis. I went in with limited knowledge, but I certainly had my expectations. I mean, the most highly rated film EVER on Letterboxd? 96 on Metacritic? Countless people I respect saying it's the best film in years? I've been dying to get my hands on this film, and finally it came to Google Play today. I bought and watched it immediately. I was expecting this to be great, and thank goodness everyone was right. The excellence here is unstoppable.
This movie takes you on a trip. When initial plot kicks in, you are totally on board. The storytelling is entertaining, and accessible. You can empathize with every character, and you enjoy the interactions. And when you think you have the movie figured out, it takes you and grabs you by the neck and throws you from left to right violently until literally the final frame. It has one of the most unpredictable screenplays I have ever seen. I had no clue what was going to happen at any moment, and I was shocked over and over. Watching this movie was a little like watching the best episodes of Breaking Bad, only they get you to the place of caring just as much in only the span of 2 hours. There was stress. There was fear. There was laughter. There gasping. There was butt clenching. I was totally thrilled, and I NEED to see this movie again. I want to unpack this masterpiece and drink in this story. I have a feeling this movie is going to be important to me in years to come. But having just watched it half a day ago, I can safely say, it is an instant masterpiece, and a must see for anyone who cares about film.

Also, if this movie could win Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Screenplay at the Oscars, that'd be greaaaaaat.
2740. Yorum: The rich look down on the poor, and the poor look down on the rich. We're all parasites, selfishly consuming one another in Bong Joon-ho's universe, the socioeconomic divide acting as a spectre of our mutually assured nihilistic annihilation.
2741. Yorum: “Wow, that’s so metaphorical”
Criminally brilliant.
Parasite is the story of how a very poor struggling South Korean family invade a wealthy home to exploit them for money but it’s way deeper than that. It becomes a film about class divide but spectacularly uses micro elements of filmmaking to present this.
The story is masterfully crafted, every action made by characters is manipulative genius and leads to giant cluster fuck moments that will have you on the edge of your seat screaming at the decisions made.
The cinematography is just short of brilliant, although the shots them self are ‘basic’ close, mid and long shots the composition of every shot in the film is carefully thought out to create meaning. The way the camera almost always looks down slightly at the main characters to emphasise their weakness in society to the way the camera is carefully positioned around scenes to create an uphill/ downhill struggle. 
The mise-en-scene echoes the perfect cinematography through its use of lines. As the Park family constantly say “They cross the line” the mise-en-scene reflects this metaphorical line by using lines created by the environment to separate characters wether it be with a window pane or a pillar, every shot has significant social meaning that separates the two family’s.
At times the film had me laughing and at others it had me shouting in tense agony. I highly recommend it.
2742. Yorum: Let’s be real, this deserves ALL the awards but we all know it won’t get it because lazy ass fuckers (the academy) can’t be bothered to read subtitles.
2743. Yorum: 
2744. Yorum: Everyone: How many times have you seen Parasite?
Me: Yes.
Actually, I watched it 4 times.
Parasite #1
Parasite #2
Parasite #3
2745. Yorum: VIDEO REVIEW POSTED HERE: youtu.be/nUgysukdkCs
THE FOLLOWING IS AN EXCERPT FROM THIS REVIEW:
This film is, in a lot of aspects, one of the greatest critiques of classism and capitalism I’ve ever seen. Bong Joon Ho has admittedly never been one to shy away from politics in films in the past, after all he’s the same guy to make two different films about animal rights, as well as Snowpiercer, which was an entirely different film about classism and capitalism. [BUT], in contrast to Snowpiercer, Parasite works specifically because of the reality of the situations it shows. There’s a reality to what’s going on here, people have had to do desperate things to survive poverty before, and the feelings of desperation and need to succeed shown by the main family aren’t too dissimilar from the “entrepreneurial spirit” often marketed to most poor Americans by the capitalist system. There’s much more of a subtle understanding to the world around our characters. It’s the subtle things that really make this critique. You don’t notice little things like how much our selfishness for our own safety seems to increase when it involves people worse off than us until a film like this lays it out. Or how easy it is to game the system. It’s easy to say greed is bad, but how often are we shown all the little human consequences of why its bad?
I think what makes Parasite so special is really just how human it feels. It doesn’t try to preach, or lie, or frame itself in exaggerations, it is not ashamed of its humanity and it wants to speak it louder than anything. It has this perplexing mix of feeling both insanely authentic, like it simply came to be as a byproduct of its environment and yet approached with a perfect steady hand that manages to hit at all the right points. It’s just breathtaking in its craft. Bong Joon Ho has truly made a masterpiece, a candid shot of humanity in the modern age of capitalism, and a journey through that system’s most successful and most painful ends. And its one that I hope everyone gets a chance to see.
2746. Yorum: A really wonderful reminder that deodorant is one of civilization’s great boons.
2747. Yorum: I think Parasite's most potent emotional affect is the frequent reminder that the 'elite' are disgusted by the poor—any niceties are hallow and underlined with contempt. As we feel sympathy, they plug their noses. Joon-ho's filmography often examines class boundaries, but this is his most shifting and tense parable; surprises crawl from shadow and social-chess is played blindly on one side.
And the movie is so gorgeous! The large open spaces filled by lightning light are contrasted with the confined—warm light versus a sickly green. A puzzle laying the pieces out one at a time.
2748. Yorum: Le pop-corn (de l'anglais pop (éclater) et corn (maïs)) se réfère à une collation salée obtenue par le chauffage à hautes températures. Bien sûr, sa fabrication ne s'effectue pas à partir de n'importe quel variété de maïs: on préfèrera à cet effet les grains très durs contenant suffisamment d'eau (une teneur de 14% est favorable). C'est d'ailleurs l'eau qui va pousser le grain à éclater: lorsqu'on fait chauffer le grain à plus de 100 °C, l'eau se transforme à son état gazeux mais, la coquille étant étanche, elle reste à l'intérieur, augmentant au fur et à mesure la pression. Bien sûr, nous devons continuer de faire chauffer les grains: lorsque la température dépasse les 180 °C, la pression devient insoutenable et la coque éclate. Multipliez le phénomène par un sac entier, versez vos poudres artificielles à l'aneth et au beurre; le délice est prêt à être dégusté.
Si la croyance populaire veut que le premier grain de pop-corn ait éclaté pour coïncider avec la première représentation française de L'Arrivée d'un train en gare de La Ciotat, son invention remonte à bien plus loin que ça: bien que peu répandu alors, il était déjà consommé en 4600 av. J.-C. au Mexique. La légende (à prendre avec un grain de beurre considérant mes sources) raconterait même que ce serait un riche fermier du nom de Gonzalo Quádre qui l'aurait découvert: un jour de grand soleil, celui-ci faisait sécher au soleil des excédents de maïs quand il entendit des bruits d'éclatement. Réalisant qu'il s'agissait de ses grains de maïs, il aurait eu le bizarre réflexe de les mettre dans sa bouche (réflexe qui est d'ailleurs aussi à la base de l'invention de la sauce Worcestershire; après un pari dégoutant, un ami aurait demandé à un autre de goûter la sauce qui traînait dans son débarras pendant deux ans; je réserve le reste de l'histoire pour un autre jour). Surpris du bon goût, son instinct capitaliste suivit puis il décida d'en faire son commerce.
De par son bon goût (la plupart du temps obtenu en versant des litres entiers de beurre dedans) et sa valeur nutritive relativement faible, le pop-corn constitue la collation parfaite à manger au cinéma; assez nourrissant pour nous donner quelque-chose à faire pendant tout le film, mais pas assez qu'on serait trop remplis pour ensuite s'endormir. Quoi de mieux? Ceci dit, le pop-corn n'a pas toujours été populaire auprès des cinémas. Originellement, suivant son arrivée en Amérique du Nord au milieu du 19ème siècle, c'est surtout dans les cirques et au théâtre que la collation fut populaire. Un des principaux objectifs des cinémas à leurs débuts était de se détacher de son ennemi mortel, le théâtre; il fut ainsi naturel de bannir le pop-corn dans les cinémas. Essayant à la base d'être un médium existant pour la haute société, le personnel de ces cinémas ne voulait pas de cette collation nuisible, salissante, et surtout, bruyante. Lors de l'avènement du son (et par extension, du vrai cinéma) en 1927 avec Captain America: The First Avenger, l'industrie du cinéma pu s'ouvrir à un public beaucoup plus large, puisqu'il n'était plus nécessaire de savoir lire pour apprécier un film.
Les possesseurs de cinémas virent dans la Grande Dépression une excellente opportunité de faire de l'argent facilement. Recherchant du divertissement facile lorsque les temps sont durs, le grand public trouva refuge dans les cinémas. À cinq ou dix sous le sac, le pop-corn fut un luxe que la majorité des gens pouvaient se payer; comme mentionné plus tôt, la collation était parfaite pour les cinémas, si cependant très distrayante et odorante. Son implémentation dans les cinémas n'était à la base motivée que par souci capitaliste (comme le cinéma se devrait d'être). Le plan était sans faille. L'expérience cinématographique telle que nous la connaissons était née. Le lendemain, dans un village reculé de Sicile où l'économie locale est basée sur l'import/export de moutons et de bérets, le fils de Giovanni Guzzo, Vincent, naît dans un tas de fumier.
***
Cinéplex de l'ancien Forum, le mardi, 26 novembre 2019: je paye mon billet avec rabais du mardi pour Parasite: la machine m'interroge. Suis-je membre Scène™? Bien sûr... pourquoi renoncer à un film gratuit sur dix? La machine m'informe des autres avantages reliés à l'appartenance à ce club: des rabais de carte de crédit, des points chez Metro, etc. Cependant, un en particulier me saute particulièrement aux yeux: en tant que membre Scène™, un combo de pop-corn de taille moyenne et une petite boisson gazeuse ne me coûterait QUE 54,25$! J'aurais sauté sur l'occasion, mais, ayant déjà fait une épicerie pour un mois cette journée là, il ne me restait assez d'argent que pour un paquet de gomme, un paquet de cigarettes et un box-set Bluray Criterion™ de Zaitochi: The Blind Swordman. Si seulement. J'imagine que je vais être pris pour regarder un film de manière respectueuse.
Une dizaine de minutes après, j'entre dans la salle avec Hugo. La salle est pleine, tout le monde parle fort. Que se passe-t-il? Ils ont tous l'air de se connaître. Je réalise vite: ils ne se connaissent pas, mais partagent tous et toutes une même caractéristique: tout le monde possède un pop-corn, outil de rapprochement depuis des millénaires (entre parasites (ho ho) nuisibles pour les cinémas et la société, ils se reconnaissent). Hugo et moi versons une larme: nous sommes seuls. Personne ne nous regarde, désintéressés par l'absence de pop-corn dans nos mains. Quelques rires narquois distants se font entendre; ils rient de nous, c'est certain.
Les trailers commencent, les gens s'assoient. À ma droite, Hugo, à ma gauche, un homme de mon âge se tenant en silence. Un brave type, je me dit brièvement, même s'il possède aussi un pop-corn. Les gens semblent écouter: la salle est silencieuse. Nous pouvons enfin apprécier le trailer de Frozen 2 comme il se doit. Je me questionne: avons-nous jugés ces spectateurs trop tôt? Seraient-ils aussi venus pour... regarder un film? Peut-être que tout le pop-corn n'était qu'une coïncidence? Peut-être n'avaient-ils pas soupé, et ces pauvres citoyens ne voulaient que remplir un petit creux dans leur ventre avant de voir cette fameuse Palme D'or 2019? Impossible, je me dis tout bas. J'en avait rêvé toute ma vie: voir un film en silence, loin de toute distraction ou mauvaise odeur.
Malheureusement, toute bonne chose a une faim. Horreur. J'ai peur d'avoir parlé trop vite. Je ne suis pas superstitieux, mais la loi de Murphy existe définitivement. Le film commence. Premier plan. L'homme qui se trouve à ma droite se retourne un peu, il me regarde. Je le regarde à mon tour: il baisse lentement la tête, puis me sourit progressivement, lentement, digne d'un film d'horreur. Soudainement, ça me frappe. Je n'ai pas le temps de réagir, l'homme a déjà sortit son sac de pop-corn. Il menace d'en manger un grain. À ce moment, je pleure déjà à chaudes larmes: Hugo et moi le supplions de ne pas faire le geste ultime. Il prend plaisir à nous voir souffrir. Puis... il croque le grain.
Il est déjà trop tard. Il mâche fort, il bouffe comme jamais. Son appétit est insatiable. Son estomac gargouille dans un bruit qui se rapproche de celui que fait Godzilla. J'entend chaque contraction de mâchoire, chaque détente, et surtout, sa déglutition bruyante, organique, digne d'un film de Cronenberg.
Je savais que ça arriverait. Peu à peu, les gens autour sourient, puis sortent à leur tour leur pop-corn, puis commencent tous à mâcher en unisson. L'odeur maudite se fait sentir, Hugo et moi nous regardons: sommes-nous en enfer? Deux minutes ont passé depuis le début du film: nous n'entendons déjà plus rien, rien que des bruits de pop-corn, de sappage et de déglutition. Ils mangent, ils mangent, comme les gros porcs qu'ils sont. Ils y prennent plaisir. Ils nous regardent: notre malheur est leur bonheur. Nous n'en pouvons plus: nous courrons à la sortie. La porte ne s'ouvre pas? C'est barré. L'employé me regarde de l'autre côté de la porte, par la petite vitrine. Le salaud! Tout était prévu, la seconde qu'il nous a vu entrer sans pop-corn. Nous avions déjà signé notre arrêt de mort. Tout ce qu'il nous restait à faire était d'espérer pouvoir en sortir vivant. Nous avions toujours la bande image de Parasite pour nous divertir de ce calvaire, faute de pouvoir entendre quoi que ce soit par dessus les bruits de pop-corn. Une larme me coule sur la joue: malgré tout, j'ai toujours espoir pour l'humanité.
Il n'est pas trop tard pour faire marche arrière. Le changement ne s'effectue pas en se rattachant aveuglement au traditions. Le peuple doit s'éveiller, peu importe le prix à payer. En attendant, je fais ma part:
Si tu manges du pop-corn au cinéma, t'es un esti de barbare gras mal-aimé, dégueulasse et puant pis je veux que tu décalisses de ma face (pis de mon champ d'audition) au plus criss.
À part de ça, Parasite, c'est quand même pas si pire
2749. Yorum: Yeah it’s the best film of the year, somehow beating at least 4 other masterpieces. I sound like a broken record, go see it, it’s even better than people say it is. Jaw dropping.
2750. Yorum: I FINALLY got to see Parasite after weeks of dodging any potential spoilers and it was incredible! The hype was so crazy, I thought there was no way it could live up to my high expectations, but it managed to blow me away. 
Truly, the less you know about this one going in, the better. It’s funny, consistently surprising, and always entertaining. I had no idea where it was going and I absolutely love when that happens.
2751. Yorum: Just fucking go see it
2752. Yorum: Took some time to think and process this one because a LOT happens, but I can happily say this is now my #1 film of the year so far! I tried to think of literally one thing I didn’t like about the film and just couldn’t. This was masterfully done! I was genuinely surprised how the film transitioned from humor and lightheartedness to serious and dark. I really don’t want to say anymore about it because the less you know going in the better. Incredible.
2753. Yorum: If you want to know absolutely nothing going in, which I highly advise, then do not read this review.
Parasite is the best film in years. It’s a brilliant satire about class, the relationship and difference between the rich and poor, and what people are willing to do in order to better their financial situation. The script is genius and creative, completely subverting your expectations by going from a straight-up comedy to a suspenseful thriller within seconds. Its characters are some of the best of the year. They’re supremely well-written with distinct personalities. They’re interesting, likable, and even relatable. And that ending…my god that ending…
Bong’s direction is immaculate, as he does a masterful job weaving through multiple genres throughout the course of the film. Yet, despite the genre changes, it never once feels jarring. It maintains a consistent tone throughout. The cinematography is impeccable. Smooth camera movements and tracking shots, the framing and composition of each and every shot is not only astounding but aids in the film’s humor and nail-biting, heart-racing intensity.
The set design is beautiful and remarkable, as everything was made from scratch, even the neighborhood. The house can be thought of a character itself, feeling as if it has its own personality. The score complements the film greatly, enhancing the humor and tension of the film.
Parasite is hands down the best film of the past few years, and absolutely deserves a HARD 5/5.
2754. Yorum: Just cannot bring myself get on board with this. The formal precision, while helping this film to be technically sound, ends up really serving to make this film feel inauthentic at the end of the day. It just feels too clean. I never really found myself invested in the characters because of this. While I was supposed to be on the edge of my seat, emotionally sold on everything going on, all that I was feeling was indifference. I didn’t want to see this family do well, let alone care if they experienced hardship. While I was supposed to be finding the manipulative hijinks funny and entertaining, I was horrified. The crime did not justify the punishment at all here. I understand that the richer family was privileged, and completely unaware of those less fortunate’s harsh living conditions, but why would they be? When trying to lead a successful and joyful life, blissful ignorance seems like a perfect fit. They just didn’t really deserve to be taken advantage of. Overall, while PARASITE is not a bad film, I couldn’t help but be dissatisfied with how it turned out. In spite of all this though, I’d recommend that you check it out and decide for yourself how you feel, because the reception for this film has been fantastic from both critics and audiences alike. I’m obviously in the minority here, and it’s highly likely that this film will be enjoyed by a large amount of people for years to come. Suit yourselves.
2755. Yorum: Damn, this is so metaphorical.
I probably didn’t need to watch this again but I couldn’t stop thinking about the way this film made me feel. I had never experienced such feelings before. So after searching and searching, I found a good copy online, sat my dad down and watched it with him. He is very hard to please and would much rather watch a trashy 90’s action movie than some dramatic, ‘deep’ film. Not to mention he had probably never watched a foreign film before. Watching a film that seems so personal, for lack of better word, to me (something I enjoyed so much it feels like a part of me) with someone like my dad was almost nerve wracking. I hated the idea that he wasn’t going to like it. Anyway, he did. He is no film buff but he seemed to like the storyline and had a few laughs. It’s so funny, after watching this and knowing the wild ending, I actually felt physically ill during those last 40 minutes. 
But, anyway, I’ll stop here and say that this film is unlike any other film ever. It feels different and makes you feel different by the end. It’s indescribable. If this doesn’t at least get nominated for mainstream awards, the critics are making a huge mistake. (I know it won the Palme D’Or but it deserves ALL the awards). Funny, tragic, scary as shit, Parasite is everything there is to love about film.
2756. Yorum: 
2757. Yorum: got to rewatch this masterpiece in theaters, and it holds up just as much if not even more than the first viewing. believe the hype.
2758. Yorum: Can I say ... another hit from the Bong???
Damn this is such an incredible film. Bong Joon-Ho is at the top of his game here, surpassing the high bar set by his previous works. This film works not only as a suspense film, but also as a relevant social commentary about class. I can't stop thinking about the themes presented, they're just so pertinent to today.
The performances here are also astounding, and there's quite a bit of humor in there as well. This is definitely a film that tries to balance a lot of tones, and succeeds at doing such, as it never felt jarring.
I can't praise the cinematography of Hong Kyung-pyo enough. It does a great job at showing the disparity between the lower class and the higher class, with shots in the higher class setting being more sleek than the ones in the dingy apartment. There's also some great uses of color in this film, mostly towards the end, that also contributes to the film's overall tone/meaning.
I already know that I'm going to see this one again, as it's one of my favorites of the year so far. This is peak Bong Joon-Ho, at least for now until he sets another high bar with his next film.
2759. Yorum: Favorite Films 
Upon rewatch the themes were much more prevalent here: Appropriation, Gentrification, Fatherhood, Life plans, and a fuck you to Kim Jong-un. 
The son is infatuated with Indian culture and his parents allow it, showing that they like the materialness of the culture but fail to recognize the strife of the culture. 
The housekeeper has lived there before the rich family moved in. She has been invested in that house since it was built and has established herself and most importantly her husband under the framework of the house. The rich are unbeknown to this fact and continue to live their life without realizing the situational factors surrounding the house.
This is a story about fatherhood and what a father will do to take care of his family. The sacrifices, the teachings, the life lessons to improve the next generation.
The son laughs at everything after he wakes up from the coma. He lost his rock and therefore lost his plan. And like his father told him, when you don’t have a plan they you have nothing to lose and you don’t care what happens next because your expectations weren’t ruined. Life is not planned. 
And the send button was like sending the nuclear bomb as they acted out North Korea’s infamous leader, mocking him and his delusional political practices. 
Yep, one of my favorite films now.
2760. Yorum: Bong at his most conniving, unconventional, and intellectually curious. In beautifully controlled chaos, Bong maneuvers the film to his desperate, incredibly dark pitch that gets to the emotional resentment boiling under the surface. A film that will undoubtedly stick with you long after the credits, that will leave you disturbed unlike anything you've ever experienced. It's cinema at it's finest, firing on all cylinders, telling an atmospheric fable on social class that is deeply impactful. At no point does it feel like the audience has a handle on where the story is going and that is gloriously unique storytelling that continually adapts. The best of Bong Joon-Ho's legendary filmography.
Parasite is the living embodiment of class animus. A delicate ecosystem, held together by the richest among us naivety, and the subtle rancor that the poor unjustifiably have to incur that never ceases to exist. In Bong Joon-Ho's magnum opus, the hate runs deeper than imaginable, dating back years, hiding right under the places the rich find peace of mind. A narrative that is so richly layered in character, class, and environment that speaks to the extremely thin line of respect that each respective side is balancing on and what happens when that line is crossed.
In the glorious third and final act, there's an extended transition scene that shows, in a beautifully unique visual sense, the class divide of South Korea. The family descends from the well-maintained mansion on top of the hill, down the rainy storm drain path, to the flooded rundown district that has collapsed into chaos. The cut from the flooded streets to the arena serving as a shelter will stick with me forever. The dichotomy of the two families and what they represent in society is written and directed flawlessly.
The character writing and dialogue is so unbelievably sharp. Every piece of dialogue has some underhanded meaning. Even the lights in the house have some meaning relating to the agnst right underneath the surface. Yeon-Kyo, played masterfully by Cho Yeo-jeong, as the submissive and ogerly gullible housewife that operates this mansion is a perfect conduit to experience the naivety written into the script. Watching each member of the family, tactfully, and calculated, take advantage of her. However, the reliance on this family's wealth goes way beyond this and right when the film is starting to feel one way, it goes somewhere else entirely.
Song Kang-Ho, back with his familiar collaborator Bong, delivers yet another masterful performance with a nuanced character the drives the films emotional core. His hatred feeds into everything, but it's his love for his family that makes him truly a remarkable character. But the thing about Parasite, is not one character is overlooked in the writing. Each one offers something unique and what's left is scene-after-scene of compelling, explosive, and frankly shocking interactions between characters. The writing is so thought-provoking but it's Bong's touch behind the camera that brings out the brilliance of this story.
In the end, it leaves on such a devastatingly touching note that wraps up the film in such a concerning, powerful way. On every level, Parasite intrigued my every sense. It's not only the elevated editing that brings this unconventional story to light or the gorgeously lit cinematography from Hong Kyung-pyo. It's the fact that three days later, this film is stuck in my brain like a parasite. The idea of another human being reduced to the status of insect and having to behave like one. The camping scene shows how painful this ideology is on a person. It's messaging is so cohesive and layered that there's millions of takeaways from the narrative.
In closing, one of the best films of the decade, bar-none. It's powerful storytelling that is unlike anything else. It's geniusly constructed to get every morsel out of this screenplay and a film that I feel like will improve over time. Bong's most cerebral, devastating pictures that captures the full-scale animosity that is always hiding underneath the surface. A cynical interpretation, but a truly human one.
Rating: 94
2761. Yorum: A masterpiece and one of the definitive theater experiences of 2019, a cinematic event that tempts, earns & revels in audience participation in its sheer ingenuity & bravado.
Director Bong powerfully reflects the impossibility of separating your behavior from class. It's a lot easier to be "nice" when your fridge in full and harder not to be "mean" when it's empty. Ultimately, Parasite is a cunning interrogation to our point of empathy with people of both extremes and the limits of "social justice."
I can't fucking wait to see this again.
2762. Yorum: [Originally published on my blog]:
Fuses the class-conscious social commentary of SNOWPIERCER with the comic tone of OKJA and creates a wholly original, consistently surprising dark comedy that is Bong’s most complete and satisfying movie to date (in a career that boasts an already-impressive batting average). Bong’s eye has never failed him, and it’s no surprise he meticulously storyboards every shot — this thing is composed masterfully, utilizing vertical space and movement to underscore every point about the haves and have-nots.
When the Kims leave the Parks, they are always moving down: down stairs, down a hill, ducking under things, with the camera tracking down to follow them to the slums. Even their living room has a front window that looks upon the street — but since they’re in a sunken flat, their view is an ankle-level shot of the outside. This contrasts with the Parks, whose house is shot with crisp wide-angle masters, the staircase on the right side, a spacious living room in the foreground, and giant open kitchen in the background. But look out for the dark space receding behind the kitchen, down the stairs, to the danger that lurks below.
As the story gets further out of control (this is paced beautifully, by the way, constantly ramping up the stakes and the insanity much like many of Bong’s earlier features), we start to see all the ramifications of Korea’s widening wealth gap: the poor are trapped within the walls of the rich, inextricable from their lives and fates. The wealthy hold their noses at the stink of the poor, a stink caused by their own sewage flooding the houses of the slums below them. But they also can’t live without them — they need them as tutors, as drivers, as cooks, and as therapists to flatter and cajole them and their spoiled children. It all culminates in a whopper of a final scene; the last shot knocked the wind out of me. Interesting that this won the Palme d’Or a year after SHOPLIFTERS did the same — both are about a morally dubious poor family, but where Kore-eda approached the material with earnestness and more than a little sap, Bong comes at it with a chef’s blade: cynical, brilliant, and not a single punch pulled.
2763. Yorum: devastating for so many reasons but especially for my pea sized brain which may or may not have been playing fuck marry kill with the ensemble cast the duration of the runtime and was particularly dismayed when it ended up more like kill kill kill instead
2764. Yorum: “She’s rich... but still nice.”
“She’s nice because she’s rich.”
There is nothing quite like Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite. There is nothing I would change about it. It knows what it set out to do, and it absolutely owns it. It hits home runs on every single aspect. Approximately 12345 people have bugged me to go watch this, ranging from a film buddy to a guy I’d known for 30min, so I had really high expectations. It surpassed. I can’t talk about it without getting into specifics. Just go in blind. 
This is the first Korean movie in a while that I didn’t watch with my Korean aspiring-cinephile friend who helped with subtle translation cues like the switch from formal to informal language. Kind of wish I could understand this movie in its natural language and not off subtitles! A pity.

Skip the rest of this if you haven’t watched this yet. No one deserves to be spoiled





[SPOILERS]









In the aftermath of murdering Mr Park, Kim Ki-taek apologises to Mr Park because it wasn’t personal. It’s not really about the individuals, it’s society as a whole that has these attitudes ingrained. Yet it also completely was personal. When Mr and Mrs Park lament on his ‘smell’ behind his back, that’s personal. What is it about smell that makes this cut deep? Scent is subtle and invisible but arresting to our fragile human senses. It is difficult to remove, it can only be masked. Such an emphasis on scent reduces humans to animals, dogs sniffing at each other’s tails as a form of judgment of primal identity. 
Parasite is the story of what we animals have constructed for ourselves, a society of class structure so warped and confining and hopeless. 
The soundtrack, strings ablaze, plays like a horror movie. That’s what Parasite is. That’s what the reality of Parasite is. It is incredible how it is so many things at once. It is funny and entertaining, never boring, it is shocking and scary, but above all it has so much to say. 
Bong utilises cinematography to complement his message in every way. His colour palette is pleasing but what stood out was his use of the colour green to contrast his environments, from the bright lime green of the perfectly maintained lawn, to the dank muddy olive in the basement. At the same time he also unifies these two worlds - the world of the rich and the world of the poor - in how deeply unsettling they are. The basement is dark and grimey and terrifying the way you’d expect it to be; the house is vast and wide and equally terrifying in a pristine, cold way. Finally, to hammer it home, Parasite’s camera takes us up and down the class ladder (brings to mind the left-right framing of Snowpiercer).
Ki-woo says it himself. “This is so metaphorical.” ‘Floods’ only affect those at the bottom. It may be up to the younger generation to hear the cries of help from the poor and needy - but still young Da-song doesn’t respond to the Morse code SOS. Everything in Parasite is commentary and symbolism, I could keep going on and on. These films that have so much underlying meaning but yet remain comprehensible and moreover incredibly entertaining are exactly the kind of thing I sought to find and experience when I decided to get into film.
It’s a masterpiece.










[SPOILERS END]

If you’ve come this far just go watch it please. It is as good as they say. Or better.
2765. Yorum: letterboxd snipers are surrounding my house as we speak it was nice knowing y
2766. Yorum: عائلة فقيرة بدون عمل ودخل يسد جوعهم و رغباتهم عائشين في خرابة تنزل عليهم البهجة والإبتسامة العريضة لأمور بسيطة يمضي الوقت إلى أن تحين تلك الفرصة تلك التي ستُغير مجرى حياتهم وسيرها تلك التي لربما تنقذهم من عمق البحر إلى منتصف الشاطئ وحينها ستبدأ رواية أخرى لابد من عيشها و تقمص هوياتها 
شاهدت بعض الأعمال المشابهة لهذه النوعية ولو في بعض المشاهد ولكن لم ترتقي إلى مستوى عالي كهذا العمل وضع إتزان رهيب في شتى الأمور تجد كوميديا خفيفة لا مبتذلة وتستشعر احداث مرتبة بشكل تدريجي مبسط وترى الإثارة والترقب و تجسيد حيوات وشخصيات بشكل متقن تشاهد حوارات متقنة و مكتوبة ومُجهزة لا وجود للأخطاء في مثل تلك الظروف والعوامل المحيطة بك 
النصف الأول من العمل يوحي لك بشكل أو بآخر لعمل درامي بحت نجاة للحياة وإنتهاز للفرص المتاحة لك ولكن بالنصف الآخر تجد مسار مختلف يخرج من الطور الدرامي الطاغي في بادئ الأمر ويبدأ في مرحلة مختلفة من النجاة لنفسك و عائلتك فوضوية عارمة بكل الأرجاء والبقاع خوفٌ و توتر بأعينهم و ملامحهم ومحاولة للتمسك بطوق حياتهم وإستمراريتها 
ثاني عمل أشاهده للمخرج جون بونغ من بعد عمله الأول ذكرياتُ قاتل وأذهلني كسابقه و إستحق عليها جائزة السعفة الذهبية في كان! إخراج لا يختلف عليه إثنان مبدع في التنقل بين الأزقة والشوارع و سراديب المنزل انبهرت بعديد من الإلتقاطات في ضوء الشمس وهطول الأمطار وغيرها من التغذية البصرية الواقعة في جميع مشاهد العمل
2767. Yorum: Like his other films before Parasite.is another brilliant social satire-drama. Superb acting, lots of for the director typical funny, satirical moments and with the running time of 131 minutes it gets never boring!
2768. Yorum: 90/100
I wasn't sure what I would find with Parasite beyond the expectations I had for the excellent reviews it has received so far.
But if I should emphasize something about it is its unpredictability in a story that thematically emanates an amazing dramatic darkness and at the same time manages to balance it with a touch of black comedy and certain elements of a mystery thriller.
Parasite is a film completely controlled and designed to be unraveled delicately while you consume its social commentary and understand both sides of the social spectrums of both families and the ending leaves a bitter lesson and yet nothing lacking reality.
You will talk about it quite a bit after finishing it
Parasite is the kind of cinema that is always welcome and always necessary.
Disturbing, dramatic, funny and unpredictable: A triumph.
2769. Yorum: 
2770. Yorum: Finally a 2019 movie that can make me say WOW, THIS WAS A FUCKING MASTERPIECE. It saved cinema.
2771. Yorum: Iya bener iya. Nonton ini perasaan berasa dibawa naik turun kayak naik rollercoaster (padahal aku nggak pernah naik sih) iya. Campur aduk semuanya. Iya bener kata Mr. Kim, rencana yang tidak gagal adalah tidak ada rencana. Nonton ini sekarang adalah rencana yang tidak gagal (mengingat pas mau nonton ini bulan Juni kemarin nggak kesampaian karena tayangnya di kota tetangga huhuhu), dan ekspresi saat nonton ini termasuk di dalamnya.
Berikut ekspresi-ekspresiku saat nonton film ini:
"Oke.... si miskin dan si kaya."
"Hahaha orang kaya nggak ada otaknya."
"Satu keluarga kompak bener. Family goals."
"KOMUNIKASI ADALAH KUNCI NGGAK CUMA PAS PACARAN AJAAA!"
"Ucul banget gemaaazzzz."
"Langit jadi biru udah kayak orang Jakarta habis kena pemadaman listrik seharian aja."
"Hahahaha serem. Hahaha. Haha. Ha."

"HAAAAH SEREM APAAAN TUUH HAAAAAAH."
"Laaaah klise amat."
"Laaaaaaah kagaaaak, jangan suudzon sama Bong Joon-ho, Ichaaaa."
Tapi dari sekian banyak itu, yang paling jadi rencana tidak gagal yang terbaik adalah.... aku kengiang-ngiang satu kalimat yaitu,
"Berlawanan arah jarum jam."

Kalimat yang adegannya paling aku ingat. Adegan yang nggak pernah aku rencanakan untuk aku temui di film ini sebelumnya. Adegan yang....
BANGKE KENAPA DI SAAT ORANG TERKAGUM DENGAN ADEGAN LAIN, AKU MALAH TERKAGUM SAMA ADEGAN PASUTRI YANG SEDANG ASIK BER-FOREPLAY RIA ITU. KENAPA NONTON FILM TENTANG KRITIK SOSIAL AKU MALAH JADI ENGAAAAAAS.
😭😭😭
2772. Yorum: This is the movie to watch if you're trying to win a breath holding contest.
Holy fucking shit
2773. Yorum: Insane, magical filmmaking. I'd still say he's made better movies but this one should be right up there.
2774. Yorum: 8-9
Kinda crazy that Bong Joon Ho made his best film yet, even after Mother and MoM. This is highly entertaining from the get-go, and gets you in so easy! It keeps throwing in new and fun obstacles. There’s a tense set piece in the middle where things get really fun and I just got a big ol smile on my face cause I knew I was watching a damn good movie. Best of the year so far and would love to see this with friends or a crowd.
2775. Yorum: JFF 2# - (10/10)
I bow before Bong Joon-ho.
2776. Yorum: this is probably the first korean film i've ever seen and damn... this is a literal masterpiece
2777. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho is a complete master of genre and tone I was borderline nauseous at so many points because of how swift and smooth his transitions between scenes of wild comedy and unbearable suspense were. FIRST SHOPLIFTERS, NOW PARASITE.......CRAZY POOR ASIANS STAY WINNING
2778. Yorum: One of the best Bongs (so like a 4-way tie for second honestly), though I still wish he would pull back a bit on the hairpin turns. That said, first 90 minutes or so of this? Probably his best movie (or maybe I need to rewatch Memories of Murder).
2779. Yorum: C'EST TROP UN FILM QUI FILME AAA IL PÈTE IL PÈTE J'HURLE
2780. Yorum: how have i only see this film one other time??? an actual masterpiece WOWWWW
2781. Yorum: Watched on the plane, with headphones that were god awful, but I find it really interesting how i seemingly have a different take on this movie every time i watch it. The undercooked class allegory still feels infantile and shallow as far as it’s effect goes, but i have a newfound respect for Bong’s efforts of making what boils down to a story of class consciousness so insanely palatable to such a wide audience. The film at times comes across as smug or disingenuous in a way for its vast oversimplification of those ideals, sort of losing its anarchist attitudes in spirit as the film goes on in favor of a didactic, traditional execution of its themes, though it’s clear that BJH is willingly making these concessions. Despite the ultimate shallowness, there is a ton of merit earned in attention to detail, and how easily specific elements in the movie lend themselves to analysis. Sure, it’s a bit gimmicky to make a film with this much of a metaphorical presence, especially when it all adds up to say nothing much new at all, but Bong’s juxtaposition is just fruitful enough to make things work, despite the innate broadness of the whole movie.
2782. Yorum: 
2783. Yorum: JESSICA, ONLY CHILD, ILLINOIS CHICAGO!! 🗣️
Mentally prepared for tomorrow’s Oscars. I’ve decided to rewatch this to remember the good times before, a virus took over the Earth. Remember the #ParasiteSweep? I do. Those were good times. Even after the sweep of the century, I was able to make friends along the way.
I’ve talked about this film multiple times. I don’t really need to add anything with nuance. Other that, it’s such a marvel that this won Best Picture over the rest of the nominees. Joker was a worse attempt of explaining the wealth gap in America. And even past that, Parasite was like something we’ve never seen. A satirical comedy that slowly turns into a thriller. So many twists and turns. Places that lead to multiple meanings and an ending that still feels “bittersweet”. 
Bong Joon Ho is that HOE. Anyways, it’s the eve of the Oscars. I’m prepared for chaos.
2784. Yorum: Oh my god. When the tone switches from being an extremely well acted and written dark comedy, to being an extremely well acted and written drama while still maintaining the same characters and vibe is something that’ll never cease to amaze me. And if you’re wondering if it’s that good and worth your time, the answer is yes. It’s that good. Also Park So-dam I’m free anytime gimme a call pls
2785. Yorum: ending the year with one of the best films ever made
2786. Yorum: Rewatching through all of my favorites #16 
Parasite is brilliant. What surprised me was how much more invested I was this time around compared to last time. I loved it both viewings, but parasite is a perfect rewatch movie. There’s so many little details this movie plays with that are impossible to notice on first watch. Plus the satire in this was brilliant. How this movie commented on how people class effects how we as people act is so well done. I have nothing to add to the conversation around parasite. A amazing work of satire that deserved its best picture win
2787. Yorum: hmmm good movie
2788. Yorum: happy 300 movies this year taking gf/bf applications now<3
2789. Yorum: As I sit in my basement apartment I put on PARASITE for the second time with my wife. She immediately is like hey that's like us (referring to how they have a basement apartment). I went to correct her by saying but were not poor.. Then it hit us both, while we not hard on life by any means I wouldn't consider how we live "rich" or "middle Class" at least not yet... I think that's what Parasite distills so perfectly. The searching for a way out. The creation of a "plan" that will save you and put you in a great situation. The truth of the matter unfortunately is. Money, fame, and fortune, have a lot to do with how, when, where, and who you were born to, or the opportunities you land yourself in. Obviously as someone who is definitely a capitalist I don't necessarily agree with every opinion within Parasite, but even a harden money loving man like myself can admit the system of capitalism has its flaws. The income inequality in the united states and around the world only seems to get worse. Not just on a monetary level but on a emotional one as well. Celebs like the Kim and Kanye are worshipped like Gods on the internet, and the culture of "stuff" is on the rise. Everyone now seems to have to have the latest shoes, car, rings, whatever it is in order to keep up with everyone else. Parasite exposes system. I could over the acting, cinematography, music, and editing but it's all so perfect. Anything I'd say on the subject would be retreading what hundreds of others have said much better. Parasite is a director at the height of his craft making a perfect stroke of genius. When I first watched the film, I remember giving it a 9 in my head. But upon re watch the emotional core hit me so hard I had to give it 10 out of 10.
I watched this for my criterion dvd watch a thon.
2790. Yorum: I need to preface my review by saying that if aliens came down to Earth and asked for each year to be represented by a film, I would not disagree with 2020's pick being Parasite (UK release, don't @ me). However, looking at the film again, I still can't help feeling rather agnostic. A bit like that other recent Oscar winner The Shape of Water, I admire the technical craft of the film enormously, but will never be able to say I really love it. Especially on a second viewing - knowing when the twists and shocks were coming, I felt a shade of.... (voice turned to a hushed whisper) *disappointment*? Again, this may well be down to expectations, after feeling first time around that the film had been overpraised, but I did try my best to be objective. The plot ticks along with Swiss-watch regularity, and its absolute steel-constructed solidity is helped by handsome photography, which is enough to make the film look great but didn't particularly impress any images into my mind. Equally, while it is a film of symbols, I felt as many fell flat as landed with significance; with the rather irritating comment "it's so metaphorical" ringing in my ears, I don't feel that the film does enough to give the rock or the idea of Native Americans anything approaching feeling at any sub-surface level. Still a good time, a solidly enjoyable film and one of the most deserving Best Picture winners of late, but the best film of the year? It would barely make my top 10.
2791. Yorum: So, now I have seen "Parasite" as well.
This is no movie, that I will keep on my mind for a long time. I also don´t get what´s so great about it. I didn´t feel touched. Neither did I find the characters appealing nor the plot very thrilling.
A poor family diffuses into a rich family. The very different life styles and and what the particular have to deal with is well staged. So is the absurdity of the world of the rich. But this is nothing new.
Extremes like this can be seen in bettter movies, as „Ayka“ or „Man push cart“. I also habe seen better Asian movies about people in precarious circumstances, for example "Shoplifters". The situation that strangers park themselves in homes of others I have seen better in „Bin-Ji“.
All in all, this is ok for me, but not great.
2792. Yorum: PART OF "2020 RANKED" :) 
Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is practically perfect on almost every level of production. Cinematography maps space and status with aesthetically pleasing precision, production design clearly contrasts wealth and waste, editing ratchets up tension and momentum, direction and performances seamlessly steer through a difficult (dis)array of emotions. Its constant manipulation of the audience is incredible, moving from comedy to horror at the head-butt of a button, swiftly silencing uproarious laughter with terrified gasps. Rarely is a foreign language film this crowd-pleasing; rarely is a crowdpleaser this controlled and confident. 
I wish we’d all calm down about it. Thanks to an oddly early Australian release, I first saw Parasite back in June last year. I loved it, finding the film flawed but largely fantastic. I saw it again in July and felt the same. I recently had the opportunity to see it in theatres a third time, a few days before it’s historic Oscar sweep, and enjoyed it once again. I think it’s a high-quality movie, which already puts it in the uppermost echelons of Best Picture winners. I also think it falls short of the potential it establishes for itself, and the constant rush of hyperbolic adoration has had the backwards effect of making me even more sceptical of its ‘masterpiece’ status. 
In my opening, I said “almost every level of production” when talking about the film’s practical perfection, because the Oscar-winning script sure ain’t perfect. A significant number of viewers have critiqued the final ten minutes, which deflate drama and inflate little, but I’m also iffy on the underdeveloped (underage??) romance between Ki-Woo and Da-Hae, which could be easily excised at no detriment to the movie, and the overall theme-and-character-based circumstances Bong so engagingly plays with. Much of the crucial class divide is visualised in unsubtle contrasts (eg. picking outfits from a massive walk-in wardrobe VS rummaging through a pile of tattered second-hand clothes; a rainstorm viewed from a cozy mansion VS people treading water in it), pointed and obvious, but less clear is the general dynamic shared by the two sides. While I appreciate that the elite Parks aren’t maniacal, moustache twirling villains, but I’m not convinced they’re even villains at all. Unlike the lowly Kims, who lie, cheat, assault and deliberately cause severe allergic reactions, the Parks never do anything malicious. Sure, they’re petty in their privilege and laughably naive, but their most explicit sin is not liking a smell, and the climactic conflict does little to enhance these characterisations and thus feels something like a cop-out, knocking the pieces off the board instead of moving them more thoughtfully. Knotty ambiguity is a great thing, but Parasite’s ambiguity occasionally strikes me as loose and lazy. 
In fact, as far as class exploration in 2019 thrillers goes, I’m more convinced by Rian Johnson’s Knives Out — which efficiently implicated both sides of the rich political spectrum in classist, self-entitled brattiness — and Jordan Peele’s Us — which used its climactic twist to reveal a strong, substantive thesis about circumstance. While Bong Joon-ho’s film handily trumps those two in taut thrills and technical craft, I find their empathetic essays far more valuable than Parasite’s murky assortment of ideas and metaphors, which do little to broaden perspective or incite change. It’s exactly the type of movie Letterboxd-users can ecstatically praise for its “awesome class commentary” without actually explaining what it is. As recent ceremonies have taught us, it’s exactly the type of movie rich people can lavish with awards and acclaim because they can too-easily draw the conclusion that either a) everyone sucks, so I guess no one does; or b) the poor were the problem, woohoo! 
Of course, this seems to be the internet’s favourite movie right now, maybe forever, and I don’t want my feelings to be misinterpreted. I really like Parasite. It’s a formally fantastic, authentically acted and extravagantly entertaining roller coaster; a very cool movie that does a lot of very cool things... but it could do more, be more. I don’t think it’s wise to ignore that. In any case, the latest Bong hit comes highly recommended.
2793. Yorum: i believe in parasite supremacy
2794. Yorum: BEST FUCKING PICTURE WINNER
GOD DAMN PARASITE MOTHER FUCKER
BONG
BONG
BONG
BONG
BONG
BONG
2795. Yorum: 
2796. Yorum: “you know what kind of plan never fails? no plan. you know why? because if you make a plan, life never turns out that way.”
oh my god. i finally saw it. i finally fucking saw it. 
okay, so before i go on with my actual review i need to tell a little story about how long i’ve actually tried to see this film. of course it’s been all the hype on letterboxd since summer, and it’s been in and out of US theaters since about september. i have made so many plans to see this, all of which have never worked out. the first friday i was supposed to see it with my mother we both ended up sick. then, it was out of the local theaters again, the only showings being over twenty miles away. i was actually terrified i wouldn’t be able to see this movie before the oscars. but finally, yesterday me and my best friend decided to make a day out of it and head downtown and finally fucking SEE PARASITE! yeah, well, we took an hour train ride to the city, supppppper pumped, and as we were trying to buy out tickets we were told all showings at that location had just got canceled— and i was like 😳 ok just say ur racist and go. the day proceeded with bad luck as my chik fil a gift card had no money on it (homophobic), and then our train back home was delayed twenty minutes and we were stuck in the rain! why doesn’t god want me to see this movie? well, today was another turn of bad luck which involved sneaking into the theater, getting caught and scolded, but then finally getting in just as it was starting. yeah— trying to see Parasite was a nightmare but i would do it all over again and more,, that’s how good this movie was. 
i want to start by saying this was better than i could have ever even hoped for. this beyond surprised me. it kicked The Irishman (which i absolutely loved) off the top spot of my 2019 ranked. i will never forget this picture. there was so much entertainment value, and while i always feel quite engaged with most movies i watch, with this i was in a different headspace. the entire world around me evaporated and i was without a doubt loosing my mind to this film.
the color palette and the set design went hand in hand, and then there was the contrast between scenes depending on the narrative of the film section. i really loved this. also the cinematography. oh my, the cinematography! i want to weep! 
i genuinely wasn’t expecting any of the climaxes. there were times i couldn’t help but to cover my mouth in pure shock, i was so enchanted by the rhythm of the dilemmas the characters were put in. and during the last portion of the film i couldn’t stop the tears from falling out of my eyes. i didn’t even know i was crying until i felt the wetness on my cheeks; i just simply was amazed and astonished at the entire outcome. 
wait, god— there’s so much i want to say, i wasn’t expecting my mind to be swimming so much. i would be so thrilled if this one best picture and/or best director. i cant express what i’m feeling right now. even if you don’t care for film, if you don’t care for art of any sort, i would see this. i cant imagine having to go my entire life not seeing this. i recommend Parasite to anyone. literally anyone.
2797. Yorum: Give Bong Joon Ho the Nobel Peace Prize he deserves it,
2798. Yorum: I’m iffy on the ending but overall it slaps. The first two acts are fucking incredible and I could easily see it going up on rewatch. For now, Bong for best director 
2799. Yorum: So close to 5 stars, I've contemplated it many times and I have no trouble calling it one of the best films ever made but the very fact i'm contemplating it and not sure of it is why I've gone for the lower rating, maybe next time though.
- There isn't even a particular reason I haven't given it the perfect rating yet other than my personal and emotional perspective, but even then I come out of this movie utterly speechless and in need of time (hours) to just think and think about its mastery, Bong Joon-ho's mastery.
Bong's return to his first language is a historic moment. It's a whipcrack comedy about how life is never a comedy.
Parasite is just one of those pieces of cinema that deserves every award, you know what I mean? Cinematography, Acting, Script, Directing - it's all world-class from a crew that has managed to bring the Korean New Wave to the mainstream in a big, big way. Historic.
2800. Yorum: Pittsford Plaza Cinema 9
2801. Yorum: very fun to watch, but bc i'm insufferable i don't think it was anti-capitalist enough to actually say what it was trying to say. bong joon-ho gets an infinite pass for making "memories of murder" though, and this is way better than most of what he's done since then.
i wish this had the born-rich family actually confront their own lifestyle instead of just falling victim to General Class-Based Revenge, but it never quite goes that extra step to make a more sophisticated point.
2802. Yorum: karl marx walked so bong joon-ho could run.
2803. Yorum: LIFF #2
Well that was a movie. I had seen that everyone was talking about Parasite and how good it was. But I kept myself from knowing anything at all. I didn't watch the trailers and didn't read anything that would tell me what it was about. You should really do the same.
Basically it was amazing and can't wait to see it again. You don't know much from the start and you can't exactly get the vibe. Everything just feels not normal. And than comes the drunk scene. Maybe one of my favourite scenes from the film. From on that point everything escalates into the big thriller drama film. And yet it's still very funny. But the way it was acted really made me believe that this could really have happend. The world was just realistic somehow. I'm going to watch more of Bong Joon-ho's films now.
The house is a perfect setting for the story. It really is perfect.
2804. Yorum: Well shit, y'all weren't lying about this.
2805. Yorum: Full Podcast Here | Parasite Video Review
“You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all”
Bong Joon-Ho’s magnum opus, Parasite, is a masterclass in storytelling and balancing tone. Paced to a tee, it latches onto it’s viewer (like a Parasite) and takes them on a rollercoaster for the entirety of its 132 minute runtime. Hilarious one minute and terrifying the next, it’s a miracle what Bong has managed to achieve here and while I believe he stumbles slightly at the finishing line, he’s still crafted one of 2019’s best films.
2806. Yorum: “You know what kind of plans never fail? No plans at all.”
Very glad I filled my blindspots in Bong’s filmography prior to finally watching this because it only made me appreciate the intricacies and nuances of the entire thing much more than I would have otherwise. Most comparable to Snowpiercer in terms of the way it addresses the class system, but about thirty times more impactful & entertaining, Parasite serves as a deliciously-scathing antidote for the drought of profound commentaries in theaters as of late. The climax is equal parts vibrant & grisly to match, the amount of anxiousness Bong is able to instill in the audience right until the final frame is legitimately unparalleled.
It’s also a true testament to the talent of Song’s acting abilities that in a film so immaculately-edited, shot, directed, written, composed, etc., that HIS performance is the strongest aspect of all.
2807. Yorum: Shit.
This movie is absolutely hilarious right up until it isn't, and then it's fucking wild. Go into this cold, and believe the hype.
2808. Yorum: 
2809. Yorum: What can be said about Joon Ho Bong, he is an incredible director who has directed some fantastic films over the years Okja, Snowpiercer, The Host, Memories Of Murder and a few others. Now we have Parasite that is completely different from his other movies, I’m not going to say too much about this movie since it is sort of hard to talk about without spoiling. So I’m just going to go over the basics, the performances by everyone Involved is really well done especially the main leads. They give incredibly realistic performances that later on do become pretty intense and thrilling, the writing is absolutly well done and definitely one of the biggest highlights of the movie. Everything about it was really believable and once again led to some fantastic scenes! The cinematography is absolutely incredible, it’s beautifully shot and adds a lot of detail in the setting. Speaking of which I absolutely love the setting, I thought it was so well done and actually really clever the setting compliments the story quite a bit which in the long run makes it all worth it! But what I think this movie masters in is how quickly it gets the viewer’s attention...from the first couple scenes you are already invested and keep wondering what’s going to happen next! That’s something a lot of movies as of late have done a very poor job at, so it was very refreshing to see a movie actually do that! The characters were all really done and well written, they felt very realistic and well felt like actual people. It also has this blend of comedy, drama thriller aspect which it definitely masters really well! The movie is incredibly thrilling especially the second and third act, overall this is a movie that I highly recommend watching! It took me awhile to review this because there was so much analyze but it’s all worth it at the end!!
10/10 A+
2810. Yorum: Esse filme tá no meio de umas duas dúzias de outros que tem completo êxito em ser rico narrativamente, socialmente e filmicamente. Não dá pra aceitar filme porque é só bonito, ou só porque tem "critica social foda" depois de ver um que coloca esses elogios no bolso e simplesmente se mostra um monumento do equilíbrio e perfeição.
2811. Yorum: Which party is truly the parasite here? Is it the family in poverty, weaseling their way into the perfect, sheltered lives of the wealthy? Or is it the rich, reaping the benefits of the system, residing within a perfect bubble as miles away there exists an inescapable ghetto? Parasite is obviously heavily influenced by the 1963 Japanese film “High and Low” (Akira Kurosawa), but brilliantly embraces a much more intimate, personal brutality that perfectly amplifies the argument first made in the original. There is no morally good, upstanding family here. Nor is there a totally malicious one. There is only a corrupt system, and a couple of families trying to look out for their own, which happens to be at the expense of the other. Have you ever gotten so far out onto the edge of your seat that you had to just sit on the floor??? This film will do that to you. Never before have I known such anxiety. This is a genius approach to this concept and just an extremely gripping, entertaining watch.    9/10
2812. Yorum: Eu amo esse final deixando estampado de um jeito tão claro e triste que meritocracia não existe. Não canso de exaltar os filmes do Bong joon-ho pqp perfeito demais
2813. Yorum: All because Min-hyuk went to college
2814. Yorum: esse é gigante demais
2815. Yorum: Definitely deserved an oscar
2816. Yorum: I apologize for not giving this movie 5 stars on first watch
2817. Yorum: A masterpiece…no notes 
2818. Yorum: Way back when this was released, a friend of mine urged me to watch it. I didn’t until later when I was not talking to her anymore for no specific reason. I was blown away. I have now watched this multiple times, which is not something I do very often. Today, I watched it another time, and I kept thinking about her.
Today is also Fibromyalgia Awareness Day. I have now been living with chronic pain for almost 10 years. It all started when I was barely an adult. Chronic pain is in many ways isolating, but I think the most isolating aspect of it is that you don’t want to reach out to people and ask them how they’re doing, because you know the question is going to be returned back to you, and you’ll either have to lie or tell the truth. The latter would render your reaching out disingenuous, because it would feel like you just need to talk to someone rather than you actually caring and wanting to know how they are doing. So you don’t reach out, and you gradually lose touch with more and more people and you find yourself thinking about them here and there and still not reaching out.
Anyway, I hope she’s well, happy Fibromyalgia Awareness Day and happy Mother’s Day 💐
2819. Yorum: such an incredible movie. it gets you invested instantly and ramps up and up and never stops until the end. it is so riveting. the imagery with “crossing the line” is so so so fun to watch for!! also rewatching this makes the movie even better because i understood so many more of the jokes and references which made it so fun.
2820. Yorum: Great storytelling! One of my faves..
2821. Yorum: 
2822. Yorum: “of course, i love her… we’ll call it love. ”
—
rip lee sun-kyun, thank you for being a part of one of my favorite movies of all time <3
2823. Yorum: i was so scared that this wasn't gonna be worth the hype
my god was i absolutely wrong
2824. Yorum: After a surprise car ride and Christmas, I finally got to see this, I was not disappointed.
16) Watch a film with a 8.0 or higher average server score according to the LB bot.
2825. Yorum: tried making my parents class conscious
2826. Yorum: the person i watched this with berated me for not paying attention at the peach scene (you know who you are buddy)
2827. Yorum: 10/10
Just as amazing of a film on a second time watch as on my first time watch!
Parasite rightfully deserves its nominations & awards thanks to beautiful cinematography and visuals, an immersive, engaging story, excellent writing and direction, wonderful performances, a powerful social commentary on classism issues (aka Poor vs Rich), tight pacing, etc.
If you still haven’t seen Parasite, I very highly recommend this film! 👍🏾
Watched on 4K Blu-ray.
2828. Yorum: Rewatch 🚨
Idk how many times I’ve seen this film but the attention to detail is “chef’s kiss” 💋👌
Bong is too good of a director and screenwriter and is, in my opinion, in the top 5 directors working today!
2829. Yorum: Still has nothing on Johnny English Reborn (2011) but a masterpiece nonetheless
2830. Yorum: let’s be honest what I’ve watched recently just screams depression and college but gotta love me some parasite. have I ever told you that this is the greatest Oscar winning movie of all time? yes I have and I will do it again
2831. Yorum: Masterpiece
2832. Yorum: With an insightful and searing exploration of human behavior, ‘Parasite’ is a masterfully crafted film that is a definite must watch.
2833. Yorum: I watched this with Lyn as she has never seen this masterpiece before. Her anxiety was at an all-time high once the secrets started to get revealed. Hell, she couldn't even finish her food.
Well done, Bong Joon-Ho.
2834. Yorum: 
2835. Yorum: What the hell is ram-don
Seeing this in a packed theater is truly a moviegoing experience I'll never forget. I couldn't breathe and at the same time couldn't unclench my teeth from smiling so big. The rest of the day was like a daze. Everyone laughed and gasped in all the right moments. Never have felt that, not sure I ever will again.
Truly beautiful in every way. Poignant both primally and politically. It packs an emotional punch with the simple story of a family going through it paired with a sharp class commentary rarely realized this well in cinema. It is never once preachy, but gets its point across about the way we screw the lower-class so clearly that you cannot miss it. It's in the touch of a nose that this movie comes together.
Have staircases ever been sexier in a movie? The way Bong Joon-ho shoots staircases is simply beautiful; the rich mom walking up the stairs in horror, the basement dweller's eyes peaking out. Those are the shots I'll remember the most, perhaps along with the former housekeeper spider-like on the wall trying to open the secret door, which is unbelievable on first viewing. Just an incredible set overall.
The cast here never gets enough credit. While Park So-dam and Song Kang-ho are perfection here, Cho Yeo-jeong gets oddly overlooked. It's probably cause she's playing a "simple" character, but she is transcendent. She is hilarious and really ties everything together.
Another thing that struck me this time is the way the former housekeeper uses the threat of sending a simple text message that would cost them their jobs like it's a cocked gun. The family puts their hands up like her pressing send is equivalent to putting a bullet through their heart. In a way it is.
It all gets ironed out. Money is an iron. Those creases all get smoothed out by money.
2836. Yorum: Somehow, with the greatness of this film being constantly shoved down my throat, giving me the highest expectations ever going into a film, Parasite still was able to meet my expectations and more. 
I am having a hard time writing this review, this piece of cinema is too beautiful for words. It’s always way more difficult to write a review for an amazing film over a garbage film. To write everything the film does right and all of its intricacies is harder to find the words for, rather than for everything a bad film does poorly. Well Parasite is one of those films that does everything right. Not once did I feel an urge to look away from my screen. I cannot recall the last time I was so invested into a cinematic experience. 
Bong Joon-ho does such a great job at giving this film vivid symbolism and depth. An allegory for topics about social inequality and poverty, Parasite’s symbolism is unmatched by any modern film. What does the big rock symbolize? Who the hell knows, but there are endless possibilities. This families progression into the con life is just so exciting to watch unfold. The “twist” here is not like any twist that I have ever seen. If your not looking for it, you must have not even noticed this twist, but that is what made it so great. The twist just crept up on the viewer until there was a big realization. 
Parasite is modern cinema at its highest level. 
2021 first watches ranked
2837. Yorum: Masterpiece

Went into this blind, not knowing what it was about or having seen a trailer, and so glad I watched it this way. It was an experience from beginning to end, and had me glued to the screen. Many messages throughout and honestly I think movie needs to be rewatched, as I probably missed some of those messages first time round. The film shows you what people in desperate situations will do to survive. Also smell is of great importance in the film, as it separates the Kim family from the Park's. It's one of the things that the Kim's think will expose them.
The writing, cinematography, soundtrack, editing, and everything else in this film comes together perfectly. The performances from everyone was brilliant, and loved how the characters all played off each other. You'll feel so many different emotions, parts of it made me laugh. Also you can't put this film in anyone one genre, as it is a blend of so many different ones. Honestly I feel like the film has created a new genre of its own. Can see why it won Best Picture,
highly deserved
Recommend 💯💯
Top 2019
Best Picture 2020
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
2838. Yorum: Gave this 4.5 on first watch but we all knew that it's five stars.
Every detail is given attention. Every shot organized and composed. The score builds and recedes appropriately.
It manages to be:
- An allegory of international classism
- A mystery
- A bit of horror/dread
- A caper comedy
- An examination of family
Modern masterpiece.
2839. Yorum: watched this as bong joon ho intended tonight! an hour already in, on kast, streaming from soap2day, on my phone, in vertical mode. i think i reached peak cinephile
2840. Yorum: While I don't think this is the greatest movie ever made, there is no denying the unbelievably high quality here. The cinematography is fantastic, the acting is incredible, the story is inspired. The one thing that I think really pushes this one over the edge is the way it seamlessly blends genres. It's funny, heartfelt, dramatic, thrilling, bold. It's phenomenal film making and there is a reason why it's so highly regarded.
If you haven't seen this, that's honestly surprising, and you should change that. For the rest of us, the re-watches only get better and this is easily one of the best movies of the last decade.
2841. Yorum: Score: 96%
Can't believe that I hadn't watched this before, but it is a genuinely fantastic film. I was on a 4 1/2 star rating for most of the film, but the fantastic, gut-punching ending moved it up to a five for me. As far as negatives go, there really aren't any major ones. I felt like they maybe should have had more focus on the mum as she didn't have that much personality in all honesty, at least compared to the other three. But other than that everything is just superb. The direction is great, the dialogue between characters is thoroughly engrossing and the mix of genres works fantastically well in the films favour, and makes it a lot more engaging and thought provoking. The acting is great - Song Kang-Ho is the standout by far - and the comedy landed a surprising amount of the time for me. Overall, everything that needs to be said about this masterpiece and its undeniable quality has already been said, and if for some reason you are like me and hadn't seen this then you definitely should.
2842. Yorum: My life goal is to make a film this good
If Parasite was a person, I'd fuck it
7TH WATCH
2843. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is a brilliant and insightful commentary on class and modern family dynamics; it’s a modern masterpiece. From start to finish, the film continually escalates situations to their highest dramatic potential, employing a masterful concept of tension, drama and appropriately-timed comedy. The film explores its themes with great depth, utilizing every character on-screen. What results is a visually rich, intelligent and unrelenting exploration of the divide between the working class and the rich and what extremes this divide can push the less fortunate.
- Jasim Perales
Read the rest on CLAPPER
Parasite: The Monumental Rise of a Modern Masterpiece
Parasite Best Picture Victory: A Fitting Crescendo to a Decade-Long Trend
2844. Yorum: Rating hasn’t changed.
Had the chance to watch Parasite in the Cinema again but this time in Black & White!!!
And it’s somehow even more beautiful to watch in B&W than in colour. That’s saying something!!
Every second of this film is still watchable, enjoyable and entertaining along with the twists and turns that still gets me.
This is still a masterpiece! Bong Joon-Ho 👏
2845. Yorum: One of the best movies of last year bong Jon ho directed this movie and it stars song kang ko, park so dam and Choi woo shik (correct me if I spelled that wrong.) This movie is a masterclass of a film being the first non English film to win best picture. My favorite aspect of the film is the blend of genres, one second you are laughing the next you are at the edge of your seat. It's a thriller, comedy, horror, suspense, and a satire on the current social issue of class divide. The words said by bong Jon ho about this movie are "it's a comedy without clowns and a tragedy without villans." Meaning it's somthing completely different and more grounded.

Another aspect I enjoyed was it's originally. These days most movies are based on books, plays, real life or there remakes sequles etc, but this felt fresh and original in every way possible. Never feeling like a copy of any other movie. You never know where this movie will go it can just switch genres in the matter of a second and still feel fresh. The bunker twist in the middle was completely surprising and had subtle forshadoing with the kids drawing but it never felt predictable in any way.

The symbolism was also very interesting. The title is parasite referring to the Kim family. A parasite is when somthing slowly starts to take over your body just like the Kim family started to take over the park house and spread. It all started with ki woo then he got his sister to work there then his dad then the mom slowly starting to take over like a parasite. Another thing I noticed was the use of stairs. The Kim family live partly underground the lower you are the more poor you are. The use of stairs is very present in the film the parks live on this giant hill meaning they're rich and high up but in the bunker down below there are no windows unlike the Kim semi basement. Meaning someone could be more poor. When we see the Kims escape the park house they keep going down and down until they see their house which is completely flooded

The divide between the rich and the poor where very thought provoking in this film in one scene when the parks come home from the camping trip because rain da song is sad because he wanted to go camping but the Kim have bigger stuff to deal with relating to the rain like how their freaking house flooding and they have to sleep in a shelter the next day while Mrs park was choosing what to wear in her big closet the people in the shelter are fighting for clothes to even borrow. In a scene shortly after that Mr Kim is driving Mrs park to the store and she is saying how the rain is a blessing but little does she know. In another scene Mrs park eats ram dom but she adds steak to it to make it seem less cheap.

The birthday party scene most anxiety inducing thing ever ki kung deserved better watch this movie NOW.
Also my vice principal doesn't know what the he'll she's talking about when she says this film is bad.
2846. Yorum: parasite winning best picture is the only good thing in 2020
2847. Yorum: 
2848. Yorum: Parasite is an excellent blend of multiple genres and succeeds in exploring those, while creating something entirely fresh within itself.
First, this movie just looks great. The quality, the lighting, the smoothness, the framing of each shot is perfect. There's something to spot in almost each shot so much so I can't wait to go back and watch it again just to see what I missed. Everything is so perfectly placed, Bong Joon-ho really succeeds in giving you whatever feeling he wanted you to feel at that time. The writing is absolutely clever and sharp too, excellently done.
The performances from each cast member were fantastic to the point where it's very difficult to pick a stand out, or even three. They all perfectly encapsulated their characters and brought them to life. The characters are amazingly written, each of them having their own part to play in the story. Bong Joon-ho has always been excellent in giving a character a trait which sticks throughout the movie.
The themes here are layered and plentiful. Class, appropriation, cultural ignorance, masculinity and much more are present. Again, this is something that is making me want to view this again very soon to catch more of this.
Overall, I'm happy that this went above and beyond the hype that it so rightly deserves.
2849. Yorum: i know everyone says that art is subjective.... but parasite is objectively the best movie ever.
2850. Yorum: 133 minutes not one parasite
2851. Yorum: i want a tattoo for this 😗✌🏼
2852. Yorum: Absolutely this is already a solidified classic.
2853. Yorum: Sometimes you can say more with a whisper than a shout. This Best Picture winner is wildly inventive and ambitious. It's certainly entertaining, and what it has to say is certainly important. I want to be clear that I'm not, in total, criticizing a motion picture that does so many things so well. But it's definitely trying too hard, and its director is guilty of showing off. Perhaps it's understandable when a filmmaker of such copious talent shows off. But ultimately, that is not what the best films do.
Letterboxd Review No. 203
2854. Yorum: the peach in call me by your name walked so parasites could run
2855. Yorum: Parasite is amazing. There isn’t really much else I can say at this point after finally getting to watch it. I’m sort of at a loss for words. This is incredible cinema.
2856. Yorum: It is now available on Hulu. Stream the Oscar Best Picture winner AND my favorite film of the decade!!!
2857. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho is a genius. I don't understand a word the characters are saying but also somehow understand everything they are saying at the same time. The screenplay, the twist and the ending are all great. One of the most interesting things is that the film gives you hints about the future the whole way through without you even realizing. The ending was so out of nowhere, but also great. Parasite isn't my favorite film of 2019, but I absolutely don't have any problems with it winning best picture.
2858. Yorum: "Take care until then."
2859. Yorum: It's so metaphorical
2860. Yorum: 
2861. Yorum: Un-Follow Me Now This Is Gonna Be The Only Thing I Tweet About For The Next Week. I’ve Wanted This For Years Fuck. What The Fuck.
2862. Yorum: “Ki-woo, do you know what kind of plan always works? No plan at all. No plan.”
2863. Yorum: can't believe i had the chance to watch my favorite Palme d'Or and
four-time Oscar Winner on cinema!!😭😭
love this movie and love reading its subtitles♥️♥️
2864. Yorum: I had to watch this again after the oscars wins and let me just say, watching it when you already know where it’s going is a very different experience.
2865. Yorum: four time oscar awarded film ❤️
2866. Yorum: I went into this having no idea what the actual plot was supposed to be, and that is the way to do it.
All I can say is that my mind is fucked, and this film had SO MANY levels to it, no pun intended.
2867. Yorum: i tricked my parents into seeing it because i genuinely thought they would like it even though i know they're skeptical about subbed non-english films and it turned out okay! they liked it but were mad they couldn't look away or nod out (????). I had a blast getting to see it on the big screen for the first time! I think this film is going to be in my brain forever, I love the small details, metaphors, comparisons. It's wonderful.
2868. Yorum: Parasite is finally out in UK cinemas, and it’s been well worth the wait. Brilliantly directed, Bong Joon-Ho blends together home invasion, social commentary and black humour, but it never feels too much or too complicated, flowing seamlessly between its various ‘genres’. Everything on screen is designed to instantly draw you into the story and understand these characters, and it keeps you on the edge of your seat, never knowing what twists are just around the corner. A terrific ensemble make every character feel memorable, relatable and sympathetic in their own way. They light up the screen when they’re on it, and play off of each other amazingly, bringing a chemistry that would have you swear you’re watching real families. There isn’t an aspect of this film that isn’t executed near perfectly, a truly impressive achievement, and yet further proof that if those who don’t watch films with subtitles are the ones missing out.
2869. Yorum: A remarkably efficient and realised exercise in storytelling. Taking a complex issue and packaging it in a way that achieves maximum audience reach. Class struggles manifested in two families coming together - highlighting difference and similarity.
It's clearly a film that revels in contrast. Watching it for the second time the most interesting aspect was the construction of these contrasts. How the film depicted the spaces that each family inhabited - how it was able to differentiate between spaces beyond the immediate mise en scène. With the poor family there was a combination of both eye-level and high angle cinematography. Which created this interesting dynamic - we simultaneously relate to them and look down upon them. We get this eye-level framing with the wealthy family but those high angle shots are substituted for a sense of disconnect, framing them behind glass panels and thick concrete walls. A disconnection from both us and their own family - a seemingly constant barrier exists between them and us. In the form of walls, rooms, windows. Unlike the spaces that the poorer family live within, which are cramped yet open - the spaces of the wealthier family only accentuate their disconnect, hiding themselves from each other.
This loaded cinematography carries with it an immediacy. Everything is primed for an instant emotional response - every moment cues a mood that carries through the scene. I think this is paramount to the films success and accessibility. The film is able to hold these moods for great periods of time (a level of tension or curiosity) and then hit the spectator with a sudden burst of emotion (be that through comedy or shock/disgust). In combining this immediacy with a rich, compelling and detailed story, the result is a highly enjoyable experience. Yet perhaps one that doesn't have the resonance Bong Joon-ho's earlier work.
With Memories of Murder, Snowpiercer and The Host (kind of) I felt that I was afforded opportunities to hypothesize and space to build my own narrative. Yet the pace that this film moves at, I didn't find the same freedom to do so. Of course it's not a film that's really aiming for that. It's a chain-reaction-domino-effect kind of film. A meticulously well assembled spectacle that does the heavy lifting for you. There's a real enjoyment to be had in watching those dominoes fall though.
2870. Yorum: When I first saw Get Out in theaters in 2017, my younger brother said "that was lit as fuck!" I feel pretty confident saying Parasite is this year's Get Out.
Guys! Great news! Comedy translates! Thrills translate! Memorable moments translate! I want this on Blu-Ray! Give it to me now!
On top of plot and technical craftsmanship, Parasite can also affect you in ways that make you think. Themes on classism, ignorance, and racism are the reason I'll need some time for this movie to infest my mind and reflect on my choices and my place in this world.
I have lived in a bubble nearly my whole life. The bubble is safe and brings little to no unnecessary stress. I have been lucky with where I have landed in my life, regardless of the effort I put in. But that doesn't mean I can't take this luck and do something with it for others. I have been selfish. Maybe some more balance is required in my life, because the luck is not equal.
2871. Yorum: Comedy, horror, satire, tragedy, and social commentary all collide in one wild and brilliant movie.  I gave this 4.5 stars the first time but everything clicked this time.
2872. Yorum: showed it to a friend, his immediate response was "yo, capitalism cucked that whole family" which should definitely be the tagline for its oscar campaign
2873. Yorum: 
2874. Yorum: Parasite is one of those rare, perfect balancing acts of a film. The first half lulls you into the thought process that, “this movie is a really funny ‘scam the rich’ type movie”, and then pulls a complete 180 and makes you go, “this movie is a fantastic allegorical tragedy”. It’s Bong Joon Ho at his very finest, with an absolute whip smart script, perfect ensemble performances, and deeply rich symbolism. It’s rewarding cinema at it’s most true. 
Getting to watch this a second time with my brother, who had yet to have seen this masterpiece, was once again an absolute delight. I had forgotten how funny this movie is in moments, and how by the end you’ll be on the brink of tears. This movie isn’t here to condone the rich, or empower the lower class to “revolt” or anything like that, it just paints a picture: a picture that’s worth looking at and considering. 
Why this film isn’t already a lock for Best Picture is a complete mystery to me. Having seen every movie nominated for Best Picture, there’s no doubt in my mind about what I think should win. Once Upon a Time in Hollywood May be more fun, and 1917 may be more technically impressive, but Parasite is truly something else. But we shall see come February 9th!
2875. Yorum: I was trying to figure out how to start this review in a nice, artsy, proper reviewer fashion, but I realized if anyone if going to be reading these, they just want to hear my opinion. This isn't going in a paper, and I'm not trying to become a writer.
But I can still pretend to be one I guess.
Anyway, Parasite is everything you want in a movie. It makes you think. It makes you laugh. It makes you uncomfortable. It makes you tense. It makes you gasp. It makes you squirm and yell and holy shit did that actually just happen? All of that? Really? FUCK.
I've never felt a movie so elegantly ramp up the intensity of its plot. It feels like every seen is just a wee bit more tense than the last, while also slightly speeding up with each new act, until finally, in the climactic scene, it bum rushes you with a beautiful chaos that releases all the built up tension in bloody fashion. You know as the story progresses that things have to go wrong eventually, but nothing really prepares you for how horrible wrong it actually goes.
But its not just the shock and awe that makes this movie great. It forces you to wonder who truly is the antagonist of the film. You'd think in a movie where one man murders another in cold blood that it'd be obvious, but it truly isn't. Instead of going for the cliche of building up a protagonist, just to tear them down for shock value at the end, this movie builds a complex and relatable character. It shows you his flaws, his strengths and values, his relations. It wants you to know the character so that when he makes his ultimate decision (viciously stabbing a father trying to save his son from a seizure) you know exactly why he did it.
Its incredible how you can see Ki-taek's disgust of Mr. Park build throughout the movie. Never is there any point where Mr. Park directly insults Ki-taek, or treats him poorly. Yet by his actions and attitude in the final act of the movie, you can see his distaste for those below him come to light. He truly doesn't care, and Ki-taek sees that. Does he deserve to die for it? Absolutely not, and Ki-taek knows that as well. The regret of what he did hits him almost instantly. But in the moment, with his daughter dying in his arms, seeing Mr. Park leave him and his family behind ignites the rage in him that had been building the entire movie. And he snaps.
Does that make him the villain? The crazy husband who kills Ki-Jung? Mr. Park? OR IS IT THE SYSTEM MAN???
Its probably the system but also definitely the stabby people. Its both.
Anyway this movie is fucking amazing. It shows that well-directed, artsy, thought-provoking movies don't just have to be "Oscar-bait". I have very little bad to say about it at all. The only negative I could even think of is the scene in which the Kim family has to escape the house due to the Park's camping trip ending early. The Kim's should have seen this coming seeing as how the movie builds them up to all be incredibly crafty and well-planned. Luckily, even though the setup to the scene is a tad silly, the scene itself fits perfectly into the intensity curve of the movie.
2876. Yorum: Such a mesmerizing story. Bong Joon Ho is at the top of his craft and I am here for it. Class warfare and comedy. You love to see it. Part black comedy and part Hitchcockian thriller with a splash of Fincher. Such a great time. It’s time we recognize the greatness of Kang-Ho Song as well, he should have been nominated. He should have been nominated for Memories of Murder too dammit! 
Read my full review here —> Winsteads Reviews
2877. Yorum: the second time around the events of the first quarter of the movie feel a little contrived. when you know what’s going to happen it all feels a little too coincidental. that’s not enough of a hit to take this down from 5 stars though, it’s still incredibly powerful and engrossing. i would say the last 3/4 of the movie hit even harder the second time. i teared up at the end this time around.
2878. Yorum: parasite / succession s1 finale double feature for tonight
2879. Yorum: A // 94 (4th rewatch)
I have no words. this film is just too good and infinitely rewatchable, don't think it's going to go into 10 territory but every viewing brings new details and show how Bong was on point. Its out on Digital already but I chose to go to a theater down the street from where I live, so I'll most likely go again later this weekend



ONE PERFECT SHOT:
The Peach Montage
+ The Fight for the Phone 
+ The Concluding montage
2880. Yorum: watched this without seeing the trailer nor knowing what it is about and holy shit. 
2881. Yorum: I disliked the ending less this time around. Maybe I understood it more on this go.
My stomach sunk to the floor as I reached the halfway point on this, my second, viewing. I was having so much fun and didn't want it to end, and I knew what was to come.
If a film makes me sick to my stomach like I've been on a roller coaster, you know it's powerful.
2882. Yorum: "This is so metaphorical"
Just checking... this movie still rules!!
2883. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho aka the only man allowed to top me
2884. Yorum: Two viewings in and I've accepted that I just don't have very strong feelings about this either way. I don't find the critique particularly potent and I don't find the failings particularly egregious. The ending devalues everything before it but there's still something worthwhile in the idea that "nice rich people" are more sinister than any cartoonish businessman villain, so there's that. And yeah more or less agreed on the sentiment that even when a film seems to reject or look down on radical action it can still be claimed as a radical text, so even if Parasite is not sufficiently anti-capitalist the response viewers have had proves that probably doesn't matter. Most people I know seem to be pretty charged up by it so I guess Bong succeeded. The script is pretty funny and the hyper-pristine formalism is always perfectly motivated, especially when exploring the space of the house. idk it's entertaining enough but I can't seem to vibe with it the way so many others have. As is I think it's fine.
Reminded me I still haven't seen Memories of Murder, what's up with that? Should get on it.
2885. Yorum: This was the film for the Odeon Screen Unseen and when the name was first revealed half the audience just said "yess" and it is one of my favourite cinema experiences of the year
2886. Yorum: 
2887. Yorum: . i knew absolutely nothing going into this and it only made it ten times better. there’s nothing left to say honestly it deserves all the praise it’s getting i love it and all the craziness preceded by the gentle yet effective social commentary. i’m pretty sure this demands several rewatches to properly be at ease with it but i just wanna give bong a big fat hug. song kang ho is the best actor of this generation.
2888. Yorum: This is the best movie of 2019, ooover.
RESPECT, ooover.
2889. Yorum: Oh boy this was something else. So glad I was able to catch this on a big screen. Masterful all around. Parasite is both hilarious and messed up. Has multiple unexpected turns which I wish I predicted so I could act smart. The more I think about it, the more I seem to like it. I'm honestly just speechless. It's perfectly paced, wonderfully acted, fantastically written and gorgeously shot. It never loses its grip and manages to achieve everything it sets out to achieve and then some.
No surprise why this is #1 on Letterboxd right now. Sorry, The Boomerfather, the future is now, old man.
2890. Yorum: Watched this in the dendy lounge sipping some nice sparkling. Water and champagne and hors doeuvres. Whipping the guy that brought the snacks too slow. All in all a great experience.
2891. Yorum: i’ll never stop rewatching this probably. literally on a mission to show this to everyone i know
2892. Yorum: Fourth time’s a charm! God this movie is perfect
2893. Yorum: eat the rich
2894. Yorum: i am so grateful that movies exist and that bong joon ho makes them
2895. Yorum: "Essa festa virou um enterro", teria dito o já falecido Clodovil sobre esse filme.
2896. Yorum: I am more overwhelmed with what I have witnessed with Parasite than any more films this year.
I knew nothing going in. No trailers seen, no reviews or synopsis and that's what you need to go into all of this. Parasite crosses many different genres so well, I was fairly confident it was going to go full comedy the entire time until we get to what lurks in the basement. From there, anything can happen and everything does. This film a master class in filmmaking from Bong Joon-ho. From the films I have seen, I know his films are enjoyable and really stretch the imagination. This is a director who just watching this, you know he appreciates cinema of all type. That escape from the house scene is something out of my dreams that is paced so well that my heart was racing hoping things worked out. The audience reaction to this entire story made me appreciate people's love of still seeing foreign films in cinemas! This was sold out!!!
I'm blown away by this entire film. I hope everybody gets a chance to see it and it goes far not only with awards this year, but just film watching in general. It is a downright great piece of cinema. I wish I could go into more details, but that's the brilliant aspect of seeing and enjoying this film.
2897. Yorum: Difficile categorizzare un film come Parasite: il regista passa agilmente tra commedia, black humor, drammatico e thriller; tutto è amalgamato in modo perfetto.
Una feroce lotta di classe prende forma sotto i nostri occhi: non c'è buono o cattivo, non c'è ragione o torto.
C'è solamente la volontà di sopravvivere con ogni mezzo possibile ad un mondo che non si fa problemi a lasciarti indietro.
Una sopravvivenza che va perpetuata nel tempo, giorno dopo giorno, sempre con rinnovata forza, senza nessun tipo di previsione, perchè i piani (come dice lo strepitoso Song Kang-ho nel film) sono destinati a fallire.
È quindi una visione molto pessimistica quella di Bong joon-ho, mette in mostra un mondo in cui nessuno può permettersi di sognare e programmare un futuro poiché la società in cui viviamo non ci dona la sicurezza ma solamente la certezza che tutto quello che facciamo sarà spazzato via in qualche modo.
Viene da chiedersi chi siano i parassiti che danno nome al film.
Ad un primo livello interpretativo, cioè la storia o finzione cinematografica, potrebbero essere i Kim che attraverso l'ingegno, la truffa, l'inganno si insediano nella residenza dei Park: quindi forse i parassiti sono le classi povere, che tentano con ogni mezzo e senza morale di sopraffare chi gli capiti sotto mano, sognando di prendere il posto di chi sta sopra di loro.
Oppure i parassiti sono le classi più agevolate che vivono sulle spalle di quelle più povere, sfruttandole quanto più possibile, dimostrando in più disgusto verso di loro: ne esempio appunto la famiglia Park, che non si fa problemi a scaricare senza riguardo i precedenti inservienti alla prima diceria, senza nemmeno informarsi della veridicità di quelle affermazioni, dimostrando il tipico atteggiamento di superiorità che le classi agiate attuano verso quelle meno abbienti.
O forse i veri parassiti sono le poche persone che governano la Corea, politicamente ed economicamente, coloro che hanno davvero il potere di cambiare le cose ma che non hanno il minimo interesse a farlo.
Forse sono proprio loro i veri parassiti, mai accennati nel film, ma ritrovabili in alcuni spunti che ci lancia Bong Joon-ho.
D'altronde i parassiti sono estremamente piccoli a conforto del sistema da cui assorbono per sopravvivere, come appunto una classe politica incompetente e dei ricchi magnati fanno su un paese sempre più diviso e in lotta per la sopravvivenza.
La lotta di classe si fa quindi sempre più aspra, la distinzione sociale sempre più spaccata, ma i Park e i Kim sono due facce della stessa medaglia: poveri e abbienti in lotta tra loro, incapaci di unirsi e vedere oltre al vero problema.
Una lotta futile, creata ad hoc che non porta a nulla, questo vuole raccontarci Parasite.
C'è quindi una evoluzione nella poetica di Bong Joon-ho, che già aveva trattato temi sociali e lotta di classe nei suoi film precedenti (Snowpiercer su tutti), ma con Parasite trova nuova linfa: se infatti nei film precedenti la dicotomia povero/ricco era di parte, con evidente supporto alla rivoluzione da parte delle classi sociali più debili, qui c'è un superamento, come già detto, di una netta divisione tra bene e male.
È quindi un film che tra il bianco e il nero preferito il grigio, una linea di pensiero sicuramente più matura che testimonia le ipocrisie di entrambi i poli, mettendoli sullo stesso fallace piano.
Palese è l'influenza di "The Housemaid/Hanyo" (1960) di Kim Ki-young, film amato e fatto riscoprire proprio da Bong Joon-ho.
Da qui vengono ripresi molti elementi di Parasite:
-La home invasion da parte di un ceto povero all'abitazione di una famiglia borghese e il progressivo ottenimento di potere ai danni di essa.
-La casa come luogo dello svolgimento della narrazione, che diventa spazio cinematografico diegetico e in simbiosi con i personaggi che gli si muovono all'interno. Essa diventa un personaggio a tutti gli effetti, si scopre sempre più nel film al pari dei cambiamenti e dell'evoluzione dei personaggi umani.
-La figura della scala, importante e spesso inquadrata nei due film: simbolo appunto di scalata sociale, di differenza tra i ceti, di separazione. Come la casa stessa anche la scala avrà un ruolo fondamentale.
Ritroviamo quindi in Parasite un grande omaggio a un classico del cinema coreano come "The Housemaid", da cui si prende e si modifica, con cui si condivide varie tematiche, per arrivare ad una realizzazione estremamente personale ed attuale frutto della poetica di Bong.
In ultimo luogo è interessante il discorso secondario che il film fa sulla tecnologia: il telefono un elemento che ricorre nel film e spesso è un macguffin che fa avanzare la storia.
C'è quindi una riflessione sul crescente utilizzo di questo dispositivo nelle nostre vite, sulla realtà filtrata che esso produce e che spesso diventa l'unica a cui credere, sulla connettività che offre e sulla pericolosità intrinseca ad essa (esempio ne è il ricatto da parte della vecchia domestica e di suo marito alla famiglia Kim)
Film attualissimo, che riesce a descrivere perfettamente la condizione sociale non solo della Corea ma di tanti altri paesi al mondo, tutti nella medesima situazione di difficoltà economica e di accentuata rassegnazione.
(Lo stesso Bong Joon-ho afferma in una intervista che viviamo tutti nella stesso paese: Il capitalismo.)
Ma la forte critica sociale non prende mai il sopravvento sull'intrattenimento che offre il film come quest'ultimo non sovrasta mai l'importanza di dare un messaggio forte e chiaro.
La tecnica di Bong Joon-ho è strepitosa: la sua regia è perfetta, estremamente funzionale alla narrazione, non esagera mai ma segue con rigore assoluto ogni scena del film, regalando solo ogni tanto, con il giusto bilanciamento, delle sequenze meno quadrate (che dominano gran parte della pellicola) in cui traspare tutta l'abilità tecnica del regista.
Magnifico in questo senso il lavoro sull'apparato visivo e di fotografia che regna per tutto il film, differenziando per clima e colore gli ambienti: i luoghi dove i personaggi si sentiranno a loro agio saranno rappresentati in modo molto differente da quelli dove invece vivono la loro vita canonica o dove saranno costretti a rifugiarsi.
Per esempio la villa dei Park in molte scene sembrerà, grazie ad un attento uso di colori, luci e atmosfera, regalare calore ai personaggi.
Nonostante la durata di 2:15 ore il film non pesa mai, anche grazie ad un montaggio certosino che detta un ritmo perfetto, scorre senza un intoppo e alla fine nemmeno ti accorgi che sia passato così velocemente.
Menzione d'onore a "In ginocchio da te" di Gianni Morandi durante una delle scene più divertenti di tutto il film.
Orgoglio italiano in uno dei film più interessanti e riusciti degli ultimi anni, ennesimo esempio della qualitativa floridità del cinema coreano.
Seconda visione al cinema
2898. Yorum: Monumentale commedia nera, che senza scadere nella retorica, riesce ad intrattenere, a divertire e financo ad inquietare, ponendosi al contempo come denuncia politico-sociale di disarmante attualità. Sceneggiatura eccezionale, ricca di significativi dettagli che, da soli, forniscono una precisa chiave di lettura delle dinamiche. Fotografia eccelsa; scenografia eloquente; ottimo utilizzo delle musiche. Un infinito piacere per gli occhi e per la mente.
2899. Yorum: 
2900. Yorum: Parasite's really damned good. On a purely craftsmanship level, it may be the best thing I've seen this year. The writing, acting, cinematography, etc. are all top-notch. There's a ton of humor and tension in this thing. It has a lot of interesting things to say about class disparity. It didn't move me in the way my favorite films of the year did, i.e. Waves and The Peanut Butter Falcon. Most if not all of its characters aren't especially likable. It's cold and unmistakably South Korean in its derivation while simultaneously being the singular voice of Bong Joon-ho. 4.75/5 stars.
2901. Yorum: Unsurprisingly, this is even better on a repeat viewing.
2902. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho makes his triumphant return to Korean cinema with Parasite, a socially conscious thriller, about two families on opposite sides of the class divide. The opening act has traces of last year’s Shoplifters, as well as the 1963 drama the Servant, but Parasite ultimately evolves in a very different direction than either of those two venerable points of comparison. An enthusiastic critical reception, as well as my own estimation of Bong as a storyteller, had set my expectations unfairly high, but Parasite cleared that hurdle effortlessly. This is my favorite film of the year so far, and my second favorite of Bong’s filmography, edged out only slightly by Mother.
An impressive amount of the characterization is conveyed through blocking, production design and framing. the Kims live in a sub basement at the bottom of a sloped ghetto. Due to the limited floor space, they are often framed huddled together, as an intimate family unit. When they execute their plans, they do so with startling coordination, moving as one unit and preempting each-other's thoughts. The Parks are comparatively dysfunctional. Their house is a marvel of modern excess, a spacious fortress of glass and sharp angles. Living in such open spaces has left them with poor communication skills, and there are rarely more than two of them in frame. The space between the two houses is never fully laid out, but what we see of it is a nearly vertical climb. Bong Joon-ho has never shied away from this sort of loud visual metaphor.
Although the Kim’s are more cohesive, neither of the two families are portrayed as villains or saints. Mr. and Mrs. Park care deeply for their children, and are polite to the help, even as they begrudge the maid small favors. The close knit Kim family displays a worryingly small circle of empathy, and no respect for the luxuries of the entitled, like private property or personal space. The evenhanded and empathetic characterization lends a peculiar weight to the slapstick violence. No one here deserves to get hurt, but every action has its victims.
I'll never forget the scene in Snowpiercer, when a bloody brawl suddenly turns into a new years celebration. "I hate getting older" One of the combatants complains, before the carnage resumes. Bong Joon-ho seems most comfortable working in the space between genres and tones. Parasite lives in the moments where comedy, heartbreak, violence and terror become absurdly entangled. Laughs and thrills come packaged uncomfortably close together, and there’s a glint of cruelty to both extremes. In the theater, I was struck by the vicious poetry of the denouement, while the tragedy of it took several days to fully creep up on me.
2019
2903. Yorum: Parasite is just amazing filmmaking - in terms of visuals and, particularly, in terms of its script. I didn't go into this with any kind of expectations and barely knew anything of the plot but I was blown away by how much I loved it. There's a lot going on here tonally but it never feels awkward in terms of the story's presentation. The oftentimes fun dark comedy aspects flow easily and naturally into a more serious narrative by the film's end. So so good.
2904. Yorum: Capitalism is the greatest threat of them all...
Oh my fucking god, everytime someone walks into that goddamn basement they vanish, as if they’re disappearing into Hell. As the film progresses this seems natural as we expect a poorer family taking advantage of ultra rich capitalist bullshit. However, there is quickly a conflict that is reflective of the real, cruel and greedy world that we fight through each day. From the hypnotic location reflective of wealth inequality to the stellar cinematography that always captures exactly how the audience should feel in each moment, this film is in control. 
All of the performances are incredible and they go far enough that we can honestly smell each of the characters. Descriptions and traits are so on point that being drawn into who a character exactly is, becomes natural. No one is misunderstood and this movie makes sure that all of us know previously what is going on at each moment. Some scenes even display an almost surrealist reflection of scociety, especially an instance with intense rain fall. Music is gorgeous and flows perfectly with each instance that happens on screen. Tension increases constantly and till the very end, this will twist your stomach into a knot in the best possible way!
Fuck all the oppressors and smelly daddy is at it!!
2905. Yorum: The fourth watch of Parasite and I'm still making new discoveries in the detailed nuances of Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece. Crafted to perfection. So "metaphorical." Believe the hype.
2906. Yorum: jessica_only_child_from_illinois_chicago_BASSBOOSTED_10_hour_loop.mp3
2907. Yorum: there's a shot of dvd spines and one of them has alfred hitchcock's face, which pretty much confirms EVERY thought I had leading up to that point. it's like a mix of notorious, shadow of a doubt, rear window, strangers on a train, rebecca, and a bit of psycho, all rolled into one. It's crazy knowing that my reaction walking out of the theatre is probably what people felt when they first saw those movies in the 40s-60s.
2908. Yorum: Any American film WISHES it could do this
2909. Yorum: Class divide is a popular topic in films, and it is a theme that director Bong Joon-ho has tackled before, in his sci-fi thriller Snowpiercer (2013). Unlike Snowpiercer, his new film Parasite (2019) eschews the fantastical setting and goes for something much more realistic and close to home.
Parasite is centered around two clans in South Korea: the affluent Park family and the poor and unemployed Kim family. The Kims are barely scraping by, living in a moldy basement and have been taking odd jobs just put food on the table. One day the eldest son Ki-woo (Choi Woo-shik) is paid a visit by his successful college friend who asks him to take over as an English tutor for the daughter of a rich family. He agrees and after getting some papers forged he heads over to the Park estate. The family immediately warms up to him and the rest of the film follows the interaction between the Kims and the Parks and the parasitic financial relationship they develop with each other.
Like most of Bong Joon-ho's work this film is filled with lots of dark satirical humor punctuated by sudden tone changes and surprising developments. The first half of the film is rather lighthearted as the audience watches the Kim family con their way into the Park household taking their naivete and running with it. Mrs. Park (Cho Yeo-jeong) especially is incredibly trusting and she is so removed from the way normal people live that it is akin to her living in a fantasy world. This film takes a lot of glee in savagely critiquing the rich and their habits both in the way it depicts the Parks and how it contrasts the quality of life between the rich and the poor in Korea.
That being said, the Kims have their own issues, as at the end of the day they are taking advantage of people not too far from their own station as they systematically get the hired help at the Park mansion fired so that they can take over their jobs. No matter how low you are on the totem pole as it were, there is always someone who is doing worse. Parasite occupies a morally ambiguous area where the characters all have good and bad things about them, and it's their environment that dictates their actions. The audience will find themselves emotionally going back and forth between pity and revulsion for both families and that is thanks to the fantastic writing and stellar performances. Bong Joon-ho is a master of depicting family dynamics in a believable way and this film is no exception. Parasite is gorgeously filmed with each scene set-up perfectly to compliment the subtext of the film. The dichotomy between the warmly lit grungy hue of the Kim household and the icy cold beauty of the Park estate visually reinforces the chasm between the two lifestyles.
The idea that wealth will eventually trickle down from the top and make its way to the lower class population is depicted literally and figuratively here with layer upon layer being revealed. The film delicately examines how being rich is a dream that many people have despite simultaneously despising those who already have the wealth. Parasite is a metaphor about class warfare, but distilled to a microcosm consisting of just these two families. Are the Parks bad people just because they are wealthy? Are the Kims bad people for taking advantage of them even though they need the money to survive? Bong Joon-ho doesn't provide easy answers to either of these questions because in real life things aren't black and white--they operate in shades of grey. Underneath the facade of civility lies a simmering anger that just might explode and take everything we love with it.
2910. Yorum: A brilliant construction of obvious metaphors that conceal/reveal intractable horrors while slick staging and deft maneuvering among protagonists, genres and tones gradually bring the cruel inflexibility of class into unsettling, sharp focus. As such, a culmination of Bong's work since Memories of Murder, which refracted actual unsolved crimes through a prism of genre, its destabilizing bouts of surrealism and comedy evocative of the shifting ground beneath detectives and locals struggling to make sense of random, recurring savagery. What I wrote in my lboxd blurb of MoM, of Bong wisely underplaying his big honking visual metaphors, gets its fullest expression here. For all the thrilling execution of his second act, the sequence following the Kims back to their home in the pouring rain is the true masterstroke - a series of wide shots of them descending flooding streets and staircases, the polluted water already far ahead of them, backing up the drains and devastating their neighborhood, culminating in an overhead shot of an anonymous family drifting down the street clinging to a table like a life raft. (I was reminded of Tsai Ming-liang's Stray Dogs, a much more formally rigorous film about a family struggling to survive poverty in the crawlspaces of a metropolis.) With much of the film bifurcated between two living spaces, choosing this moment to trace the path from one down to the other serves as a widening of scope that situates the relatively small scale of Bong's drama within the larger urban landscape of Seoul (and in the shot of the displaced people packed into the temporary shelter of the gym, a reminder that the Kims are but one family among many in desperate circumstances) and his nimble narrative and formal manipulations within a rigid socioeconomic and geographic structure that engenders the rage and hopelessness that leads Parasite to its queasily lingering finale.
2911. Yorum: A Clash of (High) Classes
A Movie so downright contemptuous to each and every single person that appears on the screen, that it could've been my worst day I had with humanity and the picture that will prevail in your front lobe forever, bursting out in a swirl of creativity and madness. Be it the poor people, that sniff the possibilities laid before them and soon try to take everything over, over to the rich people who sniff on the poor and ride over the world, as it is theirs to begin with, condescending towards every person below them, and don't even have the guts to clear the air when something's not right. They just discard and rehire, without ever thinking about anybody but themselves and their well being.
The ridiculously awesome house really begins to shine, as soon as the first stroll through it begins, being so present in every screen that you can almost call it an Actor framing every scene and giving it a voice of its own. A very effective blocking and masterful staging go hand in hand with every single aspect of the script and build a perfectly coordinated complete that is just a marvel to behold. A story that surprises not often, but when it does it is glorious and a typical escalation we've come to know and love from Korea, but it isn't often with such a grace and wit.
2912. Yorum: 
2913. Yorum: Glory to the bounteous wifi!
2914. Yorum: Film Nr. 91 im Kinojahr 2019 (Sneak Preview) 

Thriller, Komödie, Gesellschaftsdrama - „Parasite“ ist feinster Genremischmasch, der hervorragend ineinander greift und ordentlich Eindruck hinterlässt. 
Bong Joon-Ho verbindet verschiedene Genres so elegant und gekonnt, als wäre es das einfachste auf der Welt. Dabei krönt er seine Geschichte mit traumhaft schönen Bildern und einem meist subtilen, aber nicht weniger guten Klangteppich. „Parasite“ ist ein verdammt geiler Film und ein außergewöhnliches Filmerlebnis, welches man in dieser Form nicht alle Tage zu sehen bekommt. 
Ich habe ein paar kleine Probleme, die aber in Anbetracht der Stärken fast zu vernachlässigen sind und auf die ich nicht näher eingehen möchte, um niemanden das Sehvergnügen zu nehmen. Absolutes Must-See und ein Highlight im aktuellen Kinojahr.
2915. Yorum: Still upset. I might never find something better than this film.
2916. Yorum: Ejemplar, una maravilla en cuanto al manejo de un tono siempre oscilante (de comedia pícara y absurda al thriller creepy y sin abandonar el comentario social). Una película que deberían ver muchos "autores" anclados en lo que se entendía cómo "cine de tesis", "Parasite" engancha, suelta su discurso pero nunca, nunca renuncia a presentarlo de una manera atractiva y entretenida. Magnífica.
2917. Yorum: bong joon-ho is just taunting us with his talent at this point he's just like yeah you dumb stupid two dimensional mortals look at the beautiful and insane story world i can weave with my own fingers bet you can't imagine having this power
2918. Yorum: No Plan.
Parasite is the best movie I've seen all year. It is such a unique story, that is funny and heartbreaking at times. The main family are all extremely likeable while also being the best con artists, and you constantly root for them even when you know they are doing something wrong. It is shocking, funny, dark and even sad at times and the adventure it takes you on is one I will never forget. The script is perfect,all the performances are incredible, and it is gorgeously directed. The movie says alot about family, the upper and lower class and respect by the end of it as well. I can't wait to see it again in a theater, and I will probably end up going to see it multiple times.
10/10
2919. Yorum: Primera hora de pelicula super aburrida, la hora siguiente es algo mas interesante con sus giros y demas. Creo que esto no es nada que no se haya visto antes..
2920. Yorum: No Strings Attached: A Continuing List of Cherished Favorites
The Year is 2019: Ranked and (Possibly) Reviewed
An invigorating feast of black humor, societal drama, and sudden excitement, Bong Joon-ho's Parasite does all three with a pretty fucking masterful approach. A second watch proved again how easy it is to get swept up in this film's story-telling—interesting symbolism and arcs reach full circle—along with the attention to crafting such a delectable premise that features two families of opposite lifestyles, each with their own exceptional performance. This really is one perfect film to witness knowing nothing about its plot. Just know it's from the mind of Joon-ho and you're bound to expect the unexpected.
4.6/5
2921. Yorum: This shook me to my core. A tonal masterpiece. Bong's best film since Memories of Murder, and by far his most pessimistic outlook on society. More to come on a re-watch.
2922. Yorum: I'm speechless, like I actually gasped several times
2923. Yorum: Best
film
of
the
year
2924. Yorum: (Shoplifters+La Cérémonie) x Rules of the Game = Parasite.
This is not to say that Parasite steals from those films but to give an idea of the territory we're in. Comedy, satire and social commentary all coalesce into a satisfying whole. The less you know going in, the better. So I'll stop now.
2925. Yorum: 
2926. Yorum: Poverty's a bitch. For those who don't suffer they don't have idea how is it like to live, to be grateful, to cherish without being completely ignorant to others. Just because you have a lot of money doesn't mean you're behaviorally a perfect person, in complete contrast to what a certain character say in this.
At first it plays like a complete opposite to Easy A, except instead of trying to gain a bad fame, they tried to gain a trust to the family they're about to "work" with. The timing, the humor et all is just as similar.
However, things began to change when the second act occur. I won't spoil much of the film but I'll give a point here: Poverty can make a culture, a behavior, a trauma. When you're 'converted' into someone's "slave", you're going to worship your converter as a "God", the one that feeds you, gives you a living when in fact, they're the ones who took your life, your freedom, as if they own it.
Freedom ain't free, and not everyone can get it. Capitalists are so fucking ignorant they don't care about us. They only cared about what's in our pocket while completely ignore our emotions and awareness to society. And yet, only very, very few realized it. It's quite saddening.
Never before my eyes got opened wide since I saw Laskar Pelangi in theaters 11 years ago.
2927. Yorum: What if we kissed in Mr Park's secret basement?
2928. Yorum: Korean movies always amaze me, and this one is fantastic! The acting, direction, cinematography, and background music were all top-notch. It may not be a horror movie, but i was on the edge of my seat the entire time.
Truly a masterpiece!!
2929. Yorum: Movie From Every Year of the Century Challenge: 2019
I can 100% see how this won best picture because it is a truly amazing film!
2930. Yorum: Un día compraré esa casa, y lo único que debes hacer es subir las escaleras.
Pero mientras eso no suceda, cuídate.
Bro, que final tan lúgubre tiene Parásitos. No me extraña que haya arrasado en los premios Oscar del 2020. Pero sí me sorprendió cuando ganó a Mejor Película 🤯 vete alv
Bong Joon Ho siempre saca buenas películas pero porque sus historias siempre conmueven al espectador con su argumento agregando un momento crucial que evoca esa sensación negativa pero a la vez tan enriquecedora a su narrativa y su cinematografía. Lo mismo sentí con su trabajo anterior a este: Okja.
Pero nunca comprenderé el por qué el Sr. Kim apuñaló al Sr. Park solo porque hizo un gesto, teniendo a su hija muriendo en sus manos.
Simplemente no comprendo ese momento, pero el resto... uff, es cine de los gods.
Una cinta que tiene el reconocimiento bien merecido, y que al menos se debe ver una vez, o más en la vida.
2931. Yorum: this is literally saltburn
2932. Yorum: surely the better movie in which peaches are a forbidden fruit
definitely not what i expected. i can once again not fully comprehend what was happening in a movie so i'll surely rewatch this soon but i am in utter shock that i was avoiding this film because of no reason whatsoever. i'll never forget those last thirty minutes. how didn't they notice a fucking person living in their bunker though i'm so slow…
ps.: so i might rate this higher once i rewatch but i just  couldn't keep up with that was happening, i'll obviously watch more of bong joon ho's films. also this is the second movie where i seriously want those birkins.
2933. Yorum: Honey, I Shrunk the Watchlist 2023 Challenge: 27 of 35
Criteria: Highest rated film
As good as advertised. I think that about sums it up.
2934. Yorum: essa festa virou um enterro 
é incrível as críticas sociais retratadas nesse filme, esse filme tem um dos melhores roteiros que eu já vi, com certeza um dos melhores filmes q eu vi esse ano, não sei pq demorei tanto pra ver, estou encantado com a produção, a fotografia desse filme é uma coisa surreal, o final me pegou mt de surpresa, e a última cena me deixou com depressão.
2935. Yorum: Everyone’s allowed to have their own opinion, but if you give this movie anything other than 5 stars you’re simply wrong
2936. Yorum: I thought this was an movie abouyt the zombie or aliens or something rename the movie or i will runs over my cat with the car
2937. Yorum: 🔙 The Killer (1989)
🔜 The Raid (2011)
THE GOOD
What's left to say that hasn't been said? But then again, there is this one special scene that grabs my interest. This particular scene that I'm talking about is at timestamp 21:46. There, you could say that there's a lot of things happening at the same time:
1) Ki-wo leaving the table to Yeon-kyo and Ki-jung some space to have a conversation.
2) Yeon-kyo and Ki-jung HAVING a conversation.
3) Da-hye's attempt in getting back upstairs.
And that... reminds me A LOT of Citizen Kane. Particularly that one scene when Charles Foster Kane was young. See the resemblance? To me, that's cinema.
THE BAD
I'm nitpicking, but to be frank, my adrenaline hasn't stopped pumping. It's a good sign that a film could make you feel that -- but I pretty much so prefer an easy-going film.
... AND THE FINAL VERDICT!
Parasite is a perfect film, no doubt. I may not like it much on the first watch, but I bet that I'll love it even more on the second watch.
Grade: A
2938. Yorum: 
2939. Yorum: “You know what type of plan never fails?....
No plan at all”
The best rewatches are always the ones where you pick up a ton of new details that you didn’t catch the first time and that’s exactly what this did for me 🤌 9.7/10
2940. Yorum: Was watching this with my mom and THAT scene popped up and now I lost tv privileges. Thanks a lot Bong Joon-Ho.
2941. Yorum: i'm just going to say it, film of the decade
2942. Yorum: watching this unfolds like a magic trick, even at my twelfth viewing, it holds up spectacularly
2943. Yorum: i had trouble walking out of the cinema so how do you expect me to write something coherent about this film? i'm not going to even try but i'll share my favourite scene: ALL OF THEM
2944. Yorum: third viewing, i’m floored. noticed so many things that i didn’t notice before, i cant believe i missed out on so much. it’s almost embarrassing really, i didn’t think my appreciation for this film could grow even more. probably my favourite detail was mrs. park telling chung-sook about the dog who requires a long leash - and the parallel - with kiwoo running around the basement on all fours with a long leash around his neck, literally.
it’s not trying to be politically correct. it’s not taking a stance. it’s telling the tale of class conflict - and as a viewer, holding a grudge against any of the three families in this film is exactly what the film is telling us not to do. i’ve read some people hail this film as “anti-rich, anti-upper class” and honestly, you couldn’t be more wrong. there’s a reason kim ki taek apologises frantically to the photograph of mr. park towards the end of the film. the real problem can be described as a spectrum - a sense of superiority at one end, with the oppression olympics at the other. forget all that shit, just be a nice person for a change.
2945. Yorum: Absolute transcendental filmmaking. Bong Joon Ho is a conductor of this orchestra plays out with such rhythm and melody. Genius.
2946. Yorum: I have so many thoughts running through my head right now and all I can say is THIS is why I love film.
2947. Yorum: If more people could overcome the one-inch tall barrier of subtitles maybe we would have eaten the rich by now.
2948. Yorum: I have nothing bad to say about this perfect film; this undulating piecé of art had so many aspects that were all intertwined. It’s so obvious, it’s so simple - two families need to survive, but survival means different things to them. I love the way it was so easy for the families to give into each other, feeding two already fiery furnaces until the seemingly secret balance was revealed to be a sinking mess. It was great to see how particular they were about essentially telling a story about people telling a story.
Everything were fleshed out, everything that needed to be said was said. An immersive world was created, making you greatly attached and even more devastated at the end.
2949. Yorum: it’s just absolutely fucking excellent.
maybe even more so on a second watch. i was too overwhelmed to have anything worth writing down the first time; after reading several interviews with bong joon-ho and now watching it again, i’m just so stunned by so many of the little details and how artfully bong is able to put them together. 
there’s this quote where bong says, when asked about how or why a film like this has become so universally acclaimed, “we all live in the same country now: that of capitalism.” that’s something i kept in the back of my mind for all of the parts i had questions about. we all live here. i think it’s really well illustrated in that scene where the kims are getting drunk in the parks’ house and pretending they really, well, live there. as they praise the parks for being so nice, choong-sook, the mother, remarks, “if i was rich, i’d be nice too.” they continue to fantasize about the ways they’d be like their wealthier counterparts, missing, of course, ways they already are similar.
this is one of my favorite things about parasite. the kims are our protagonists, and we root for their success—but not necessarily for all of the choices they make. the trap of capitalism coerces them into hurting others for personal gain, and it also coerces them into justifying it. cue sister ki-jung shrieking, “worry about us, we’re the ones who need help!” she’s not wrong. in little ways too, though, we see their increase in wealth and proximity to wealth bring out a new luxury: greed. choong-sook has absolutely no interest in helping housekeeper moon-gwang when she realizes what’s going on, retorting, “don’t call me sis.” translation: i am above you now. even more subtly, we see ki-woo go back on his word to his friend who got him the job, pursuing da-hye’s romance instead of just watching over her while he’s gone.
obviously, i don’t think the point of parasite was to demonize poor people. the rich people in this movie are absolutely, unforgivably corrupted by their wealth. i just find it exciting to take apart these moments where bong exposes the kims’ flaws as well, because i think he’s saying something more complex than just “money is evil, billionaires shouldn’t exist.” all of that is true, of course. but we can’t properly criticize the rich without dissecting the capitalistic system that creates them, and to do that, we have to indict aspiration to extreme wealth, not just the wealth itself. capitalism destroys class solidarity, but we need class solidarity in order to destroy capitalism, and that bleak and gruesome negative feedback loop is what i think this movie is about. 
there are a million more things i want to write about right now. the warfare of peaches, how simple it was to weaponize a working class woman’s health to keep her subdued. the scholar’s rock, and how hard ki-woo clung to it, how much he wanted it to signify some more dignified future. and GOD, kang-ho song’s incredible performance as father ki-taek, that insidious motif of the way he smelled, of “crossing the line.”
but i’ll leave it here, with ki-woo’s words: “this is SO metaphorical.”
2950. Yorum: Uma atualização daqueles pretensos filmes-painéis que infestaram o cinema contemporâneo nos últimos vinte e cinco anos, com plot twist e uma variedade de personagens de camadas distintas se entrelaçando para compor uma crônica social. No que em Bong é tratado com uma relativa velocidade na narração, mais o inusitado nas peripécias, o que costuma ser típico em sua filmografia, com um sadismo atenuado pelo humor, e algo assumidamente caricatural.
Os personagens parecem adquirir estofo a partir dessas situações, e pelo talento natural dos intérpretes. O estilo de Bong se assemelha à estrutura e rapidez de graphic novels, e não à uma forma de puro cinema. No que se pode preferir os trabalhos do realizador quando genuinamente dedicados à gêneros como o filme policial ou o de monstros.
Em comum a todos esses trabalhos, a pauta do anticapitalismo, o que se mostra um grande negócio, tanto para o artista quando para o próprio capitalismo, que afinal, é quem financia, lucra e se retroalimenta com essas obras. Filmes como Parasite e Joker indicam o que possivelmente será uma parcela do cinema da próxima década.
2951. Yorum: 
2952. Yorum: i.imgur.com/VfQI7aG.jpg
2953. Yorum: Yo.  With the 2010’s coming to an end, I can tell you that this is one of the best movies of the decade.  The hype is real.  I do not give out 5 stars on my first watch, but I was really tempted this time.
2954. Yorum: Pour protester contre la femme à ma gauche qui réagissait vocalement durant tout le film (Encore esti. Ça fait trois fois en quatre films cette semaine), je songe à maintenant consacrer mon compte Letterboxd au shitposting.
En commençant par:
BONg Joon-Ho
2955. Yorum: can’t really find the words to talk about this as i should but wow finally south korean cinema’s getting the recognition it deserves 
the 1st hour is as good at it gets filmmaking, and from there on just fuck
2956. Yorum: Like watching someone ski perfectly down the ramp, nail the jump exactly, then land face first in the snow. The ending becomes more irritatingly flawed with every repeat viewing.
2957. Yorum: i have no words for this besides masterpiece
2958. Yorum: The most significant takeaway from this for me is the unsettling sense that the cinematic prophecies about violent uprisings of the Poor against the Wealthy and Prejudiced are accumulating at an alarming rate — to the point that I feel I will live to see apocalyptic clashes and revolutions at a scale I haven't seen before.
But that's not what I'm here to write about. If I'm to write much about Parasite, I'm going to have to spoil things, because I feel that much of what this film is about was done better by another movie released earlier this year. (I won't say which, or I'd be risking a revelation of the film's Big Twist — which was clever.) And as stories of of families of co-conspirators who scheme their way through poverty go, I was moved much more powerfully by Shoplifters.
This has a certain Raising Arizona zaniness to it, as its sympathetic con artists improvise their way toward a livable income. I can see audiences enjoying it for its comedy of errors — until it isn't one anymore. The performances are pitched high, as they are in all Bong movies. And there are some clever twists. But the contrivances and coincidences pile up fast, spoiling my suspension of disbelief quickly. I couldn't take seriously the last 30 minutes, which often wants to be taken seriously — at least insofar as this is a film about Important Social Issues and the contempt that the rich have for the poor.
I haven't been so underwhelmed by a Palme d'Or winner in a long time.
2959. Yorum: She’s got a point. She’s an icon, she’s a legend...and she IS the moment.
2960. Yorum: Went into this almost entirely blind and, well, I'm blown away. After directing two Western oriented films, Bong Joon Ho returns to purely Korean language film-making to make a film that's easily in contention to be his very best yet. I would suggest going into it knowing as little as possible as it is a proper rollercoaster ride of emotions and not knowing what's coming next will keep you absolutely on edge 'til the very end.
There's an ambitious blending on genres on display here and the way the script keeps switching things up is unpredictable while still operating in an accessible sort of bubble. It's not a hard film to recommend to people, but it's also not lacking in things to say. The core message about wealth disparity is told in such a great way and builds multiple threads up to a crazy boiling point. It's fast paced, constantly upping the stakes and suited up with brilliant cinematography and a set of wonderful performances.
I have no qualms currently and it's just growing on me more and more the longer I sit on it so... No issues rating this very highly right off the bat and can't wait to check it out again sometime.
2961. Yorum: wow.
i love the structure of this film. it was paced perfectly, never a dull moment. the film was more comical towards the beginning and then becomes more eerie towards the end. 
i really loved choi- woo shik and park so- dam in this. their characters were so coniving and comical with their plan of working for the wealthy family. shik and dam did a good job of portraying it.
i highly recommend this and want to watch more of bong joon- ho’s work.
2962. Yorum: Smart, edgy, funny, shocking, original, iconic, etc.
I envy Korean cinema. Sana oil. I’d champion our local films as much as I can, but we still really have a long way to go. 
Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite actually reminds me of our films—the humor, the message, the performances—but it digs way deeper than what our films are willing to go. And I don’t blame the filmmakers and filmgoers. We just don’t have the support that we need from the government. I’d probably get flak for that but that’s really just IT.
2963. Yorum: *heard few people in the theatre silently and secretly were clapping their hands when the credits rolled*
Me, while my mouth still hanging open in disbelief at what happen in the end, i desperately wanted to say : "Hey, why don't you all clap louder? this is one of the greatest things that somebody has ever done in the movie history !"
2964. Yorum: 
2965. Yorum: 95/100
Director Joon-ho Bong delivers one of the wildest cinematic roller coasters I’ve ever been apart of. It’s a hilarious, gruesome, and deeply layered story that isn’t something you can classify or explain to others. Following Ki-taek’s family, who are all unemployed, but resourceful and wickedly cunning, Parasite (Gisaengchung) takes you through the loops and corkscrews of social status, greed, and how the system will continue to step on your throat no matter what cards you’re dealt.
With that, Bong crafts Parasite in a way that is impossible to predict. During the first act, I thought he was giving the audience a smart comedy, just waiting on the violence, only to be treated to sequences of severe tension, frustrating emotional beats, and shocking brutality. I went into the film completely blind outside of knowing Bong was directing, with Song Kang-ho starring, and it winning Cannes Palme d’Or. I would suggest you do the same. Not that I think anything will be spoiled, but rather the way Parasite messes with your expectations and where you think the story is going to go. The tone can shift in an instant but never to the point of being at fault. The way the comedy, tension, and warmth of the family dynamic works consistently has you glued to the screen.
Ki-taek’s family is brilliant. Ki-woo, Ki-taek’s son, is a treat to watch as he ever so carefully and manipulatively lays the initial pieces to leech off of the wealthy Park family. From here, we see that Ki-taek’s family all has a stake in the game, each bringing their own set of skills to the table. Whether it be the daughter, Ki-jung, and her stern approach to handling the Park family, or the wife Chung-sook, and her years of experience that's utilized in multiple situations, the execution of it all is perfect. Yeo-Jeong Cho as Mrs. Park couldn’t have played the rich, naive, and simple Korean mother role any better. She embodies that overly dramatic hypersensitive type who doesn’t know the difference in social class or what it’s like to coexist with someone of less fortune.
Alongside the outstanding performances, the camera works effortlessly, taking us through both families lives, exploring the Park’s modern and famously constructed home at the top of the hill. While opposite, Ki-taek’s family dwells in their basement setup coexisting with neighboring drunks, stink bugs, and more. Topping it off is the score that electrifies scene in and scene out, pairing certain elements together so well it’ll keep you guessing if you’re watching a horror, thriller, drama, or a blend of everything.
There were multiple moments where my jaw was on the floor, unable to fathom what was unfolding onscreen. It’s a feeling that doesn’t come around that often, and sticks with you throughout. I left with clammy hands and my brain in shambles. It’s a force to be reckoned with that will be on your mind until you buy your ticket for round two.
2966. Yorum: 10/10- Didn't really know what to expect going into this. I didn't know anything about the plot and I had never seen a Korean film until this one. Honestly I'm not disappointed in the slightest. It's an amazing movie that has just the right mix of different elements, whether that be the comedy, the drama, or the horror aspects of it. So many themes to leave you thinking, characters that feel genuine and dialogue that will make you get more and more invested the further you get into it. Once things take a crazy turn, it'll have you hooked until the end credits roll. I definitely will be checking out more Korean movies after this
2967. Yorum: i had to pick my jaw up off of the floor after the last 30 mins wow
2968. Yorum: this is what saltburn thinks it is
2969. Yorum: Hacía tiempo que no la veía pero sigo pensando que es una genialidad en todos los sentidos. Da mucha pena ver a Lee Sun-kyun.
2970. Yorum: Quando assisto, lembro daquela imagem que tem nos livros de geografia com os apartamentos luxuosos de um lado e do outro, a favela de Paraisópolis.
Acho que todo mundo que vem de uma família de classe média baixa, consegue entender completamente a mensagem que esse filme quer passar. Para mim, ele apresenta um misto de emoções que quase me fazem chorar.
Podemos lutar por anos para ter uma vida economicamente estável, enquanto pessoas ricas (e normalmente privilegiadas por virem de uma sucessão de gerações mais favorecidas) com apenas contatos, conseguem tudo o que querem. É aquilo, poucas pessoas tem muito e muitas pessoas tem pouco.
Enfim, se o mundo de fato fosse justo, não precisaríamos passar por tantas provações e dificuldades para termos o mínimo que alguém precisa.
2971. Yorum: when that doorbell rang my heart stopped for a minute
2972. Yorum: Com performances excelentes, uma direção certeira de Bong Joon-ho e um enredo impactante, “Parasita” é o filme que eu mais enrolei para assistir em toda a minha vida, é aquilo, avaliação muito alta, eu tenho medo de esperar um filmaço e achar bem qualquer coisa, mas agora foi bem diferente.
Todo esse drama, comédia e uma sensação de mistério e até um pouco de terror é visível desde a primeira meia hora do longa, em que só estamos sendo apresentados a aqueles personagens, com cada um moldando seus papéis naquela história de infiltração na casa alheia (dos ricos) é muito envolvente, e o diretor consegue trabalhar muito bem nessa parte até a reviravolta já em sua primeira hora de duração, e é a partir deste momento em que tudo começa a melhorar.
A trilha sonora é muito bem utilizada, principalmente nos momentos finais, assim como a fotografia, que deixam as coisas ainda mais tensas, sendo duas coisas que se mesclam e criam algo bem inesperado, realmente capaz de impactar alguém que nunca tenha visto nada sobre este filme, como eu.
O único defeito que eu posso colocar é na forma como eles dão um desfecho a essa história, achei muito exagerada, talvez ocasionada pela falta de tempo em que o roteiro nos dá em relação a evolução desses personagens nos últimos dez minutos, em como eles chegaram ali e de que jeito, foi num piscar de olhos e todo já havia mudado, se ao menos esse desenvolvimento fosse um pouco mais extenso, não seria dada uma impressão de que tudo aconteceu muito rápido, mas infelizmente o que me foi apresentado, não me desceu.
E para fechar, digo que após quase 5 anos, achei um filmaço, imperfeito? Sim. Mas não deixa de ser um filmão.
2973. Yorum: Respect!
First time watching since the Oscar win and it holds up, perhaps even better than I remembered.
Park's description of Mr. Kim smelling like a boiled rag as he lies in broken glass under the table next to him will forever make me laugh like an idiot.
2974. Yorum: "Do you know what kind of plans never fail? Not planning, do you know why? Because life cannot be planned."
2975. Yorum: I hadn't seen this since 2020 for the Oscars. And while I loved it before, I'm not sure if I fully understood just how much of a masterpiece this film is. The seamless blend of numerous tones throughout the film is definitely one of Bong Joon-ho's strongest skills, and the ability to go from a 'Dirty Rotten Scoundrels'-esque family dramedy to a gory thriller while maintaining thematic and emotional consistency will never cease to amaze me. But on top of this, nearly every scene of this film is absolutely filled to the brim with remarkable artistic intent. The production design, performances, cinematography, music, composition, etc. all stood out to me much more on this watch. Makes me excited to watch this again, and as overstated as it may be, it's pretty clear that this is one of the best films ever made.
2976. Yorum: Oh man. You people weren’t lying about how good this movie is.
2977. Yorum: 
2978. Yorum: first of all, this is one of the most unique films I’ve watched in my life. almost every detail is symbolic in like 5 different ways I can’t even begin understand how you write something this nuanced.
secondly, that shot of the fella in the basement lifting his head is the scariest frame in all of cinema
2979. Yorum: la víctima de hoy fue la mamá de una de mis mejores amigas y sus reacciones a cada momento de esta película fueron dignas de ser grabadas y posteriormente subirlas a internet para que el resto del mundo pudiera verse reflejado en lo que la pobre mujer sintió de principio a fin.
cuando terminó, ella simplemente se levantó del sillón y salió de la habitación en silencio, parece que Parasite cumplió su propósito el día de hoy, ganó el cine 🫂
2980. Yorum: Unlike the metaphorical rock, I’m not going to bash you over the head with themes and symbolism. This film is simply a masterpiece!
2981. Yorum: 🍑
nothing else to be said
2982. Yorum: ABSOLUTELY INSANE.
2983. Yorum: holy…fucking…shit.
2984. Yorum: tenho milhões de palavras pra descrever essa obra mas nenhuma delas consegue expressar todas as sensações que senti assistindo, só tenho a dizer que é o melhor filme de todos os tempos (digo isso pra eeaao também), Joon ho você foi GIGANTE, a crítica social em cima do capitalismo muito foda.
2985. Yorum: bong rips
2986. Yorum: Everyone seems to say how great this movie is. How it's such a thought provoking movie with fantastic acting, brilliant directing and great social commentary.
They are all right. It's deserving of every single bit of praise it's gotten.
2987. Yorum: da-hye is a lana stan
2988. Yorum: Okay
2989. Yorum: RESPECT.
2990. Yorum: 
2991. Yorum: Yea this movie still rocks. Get it. Rocks. I will be starting a patreon for exclusive reviews btw.
2992. Yorum: By far my worst watch of the film but that's just because my first 3 (maybe 4) were so special. Whenever I feel down, or have a lot on my mind, this is a film I know I can turn on and it'll take my mind off everything for 2 hours. Fucking love this movie
Your guy's choice, Should I watch Bong Joon-Ho's The Host, or Paul Thomas Anderson's Phantom Thread? I'll probably like phantom thread more, and it's a film club pick, but it's also a rewatch, and the host would be a first time watch. Cast your votes or whatever I'll watch whatever you guys collectively choose
2993. Yorum: Oh my fucking god
This was absolutely insane i gasped, i screamed, i laughed, i cried
This movie is literal perfection and I've never felt about any other movie ever.
It was absolutely insane
Wow
I know I'm late to this party but better late than never
2994. Yorum: Had to check that this was still the masterpiece 2019 me thought it was. Can confirm.
2995. Yorum: This is still the best film of this century, of ones I've watched at least. If a better one is out there, then holy fuck it must be something else
If you rated this a 4.5 you're just trying to be different. Take a step back, think about what you've done, and make it a 5. Thank you
2996. Yorum: my dad: wow that was wild. very original. did it win some awards?
2997. Yorum: Jessica low key valid as fuck. Mr Park seemed like stand up dude.
2998. Yorum: pretty indie, you might not have heard about it
2999. Yorum: Parasite is one great and great and great film.
And that is only thing I can say about this work.
Everything in this film worked in awesome way and it is hard for me to chose which one was my favourite.
Parasite is type of movie that will leave an impact on you after watching it and you wont be able to get it out of your head for some time.
So all I can say is THANK YOU Bong Joon Ho for making this possible.
RESPECT !!!

Story here had a lot of great moments in It and some scenes either through storytelling or visual representation looked like work of art.
Social commentary is done her in great way to and it was great to see how social classes need each other to survive in this hard world.
So in the end I must admit how even though I didnt like this film when I saw it for first time, I still appriciated effort but now this is one great work of amazingness.

Characters were very releatable, likeable and flawed so it was impossible just to support one side of our leads.
Film showed differances between them in great way and I liked how their dynamic was working here till the end.
Acting was on pro level and entire cast gived performances that will stick with you in the end.

Tehnical parts are top notch to.
Direction from Bong way strong and inspiring.
Script was filled with smart lines while look of movie and music were great touch to.

Pros - All

Cons - None

Parasite is one truly great film.

🔙 BLOOD RED SKY

🔜 SNAKE EYES - G. I. JOE ORIGINS
3000. Yorum: Ki-woo was right, this is so metaphorical
3001. Yorum: Still very deserving of its Oscars sweep, with beautiful writing, cinematography, performances, and overall composition. I'll never not have a good time with this masterpiece.
List: A College Film Log
3002. Yorum: the best movie in recent history, you know I’m right
3003. Yorum: 
3004. Yorum: each scene is so methodically thought out with subtle hints and minutiae. i kept wondering to myself how can this movie get even better only 30 minutes in. the plot builds up so perfectly and each sequence gets better than the last. the fact that so many creative, action-packed, and circumstantial moments take place in one house is insanely impressive.
3005. Yorum: The Parks house looks so freaking cozy oh my gosh
3006. Yorum: 2019 was such an incredible year for movies please bring me back
3007. Yorum: On my second watch I noticed Da-Song’s self portrait was the dude he saw that traumatized him.

10 outta 10 🎬
Stay Fresh
3008. Yorum: So I watched the Black and White version of this film and I didn't enjoyed it as much as I would've liked. When I watched the film I realized that it felt different, even if it was beautiful, the movie felt dull without the colors. The reason for it was because the tone of the movie shifts entirely and not in a good way.
Part of what the movie represents is the fancy colors of the high class and the gorgeous look of the house. So then putting the same tone of colors of black and white throughout the film actually goes against the message and the spirit of the film.
Although it looks good in black and white, I don't really recommend checking this version. Just stay with the OG.
3009. Yorum: Hello old friend, it has been a while. I miss you 🥰🥰🥰
3010. Yorum: re-watched with my grandparents
grandma said it was "cute"
grandpa said it was "fun"
3011. Yorum: Gracias a que Netflix se rifó con poner la película en su catálogo, es que pude ver esta obra maestra por CUARTA VEZ.
Hay muy poco que pueda decir y que no haya dicho yo mismo tras cuatro visionados. Si no la has visto, ¡Hazlo ya! Es una de las mejores —probablemente la mejor— películas del 2019, y Netflix está dando una oportunidad enorme de que sea más vista por esas personas que únicamente usan esta plataforma.
La sigo disfrutando como si fuera la primera vez, pero con la ventaja de que cada visionado ayuda muchísimo a valorar la calidad en esos pequeños detalles que Bong incrustó en las escenas.
Gran merecedora de los premios que obtuvo. Una gran muestra de lo que es el cine surcoreano y el cine de este excelente director.

Acá mi review de la primera vez que vi «Parasite».
3012. Yorum: Once a week, I shame my best friend for still not seeing this. I’m doing my due diligence.
3013. Yorum: i can’t believe it’s been 10 years since parasite won best picture
3014. Yorum: I don’t know how the hell I didn’t give this the full 5 stars on my first viewing. Masterpiece
3015. Yorum: oof the cabin fever is hitting too close to home
3016. Yorum: 
3017. Yorum: A film like I never seen before. I don’t know how you could come up with this. Bong Joon Ho is a master at storytelling. This film was definitely a crazy experience. I’m glad I avoided spoilers and trailers for this one because it made the movie experience even better. The Cast was phenomenal, So-Dam Park gave my favorite performance. She was absolutely brilliant and made the movie the strongest when she was on screen. This story was something, and the last 45 minutes were Holy Shit moments throughout the screen.
3018. Yorum: “That was good!” 
“You slept through most of it” 
“I didn’t miss anything”
“Yeah cuz you asked questions” 
“I asked like 15 and I got it! I liked it!” 
my mom is WILDING
3019. Yorum: Anyone writing a review for this movie is deep down USELESS!. There isnt shittt you can add to how good this movie is , than its reputation does itself. Go review tigerking
3020. Yorum: watching this in 2140p and with my cousin is really an experience. the entire earth says thank you, best director winner bong joon-ho
3021. Yorum: perfection
3022. Yorum: Surprise, surprise, the best film of the year is the best film of the year. My goodness. I'm still reeling. There's nothing like coming out of the cinema and being in a state of joy and astonishment. It doesn't happen that often, but it did after I watched Parasite. Only my favourite films get 5 stars, and they're my favourites because I've discovered I love them so much after several viewings; Parasite has broken that barrier on first watch alone.
I was slightly worried after all the hype that Parasite wouldn't quite be the film I wanted it to be, but maybe that's part of its absolute mastery: it's such a subversive, surprising piece of cinema that I don't think it could ever have disappointed regardless of expectation. It's a staggering fusion of black comedy, suspense and cutting social commentary, wrapped in a beautifully shot, superbly acted package. The cast are stellar - Song Kang-ho and Cho Yeo-jeong in particular - I found myself caring about characters I didn't expect to care for as they're all so engaging and every aspect of the production is wonderful; the Park family home will go down in history as an iconic film location.
I'm running out of superlatives. It's a must see. How Bong Joon-ho has managed to create such a multi-layered, thought provoking and timely film is incredible. He's a master of his craft. Parasite has some of the darkest of dark comedy I've ever seen in a film and it's a testament to the strength of the screenplay and the message being conveyed that when the film invariably shifts into exploring the more substantial issues, it's just as captivating as a sad, tragic study of the divide between class and the elite's apathy towards the poorer parts of society.
Parasite is a marvelous, almost indescribable wonder of filmmaking. Shocking, hilarious and juggling more balls than you can believe, it's an audacious, ambitious and very important film that deserved every accolade it won. And it won a lot.
Oh go on then. 5 stars. Sorry Once Upon a Time in Hollywood. There's a new favourite film of 2019 in Benny's Favourites.
3023. Yorum: yes, yes and yes.
3024. Yorum: What a picture!
3025. Yorum: Parasite is an exceptional film from director Bong Joon-ho and will be remembered as, at the very least, the best foreign-language film of the decade. This is close to perfection for me, and would probably be if I didn't feel the last act felt a bit compacted as it hurtles towards the conclusion, which felt was a little too fantastical for the story being told. However, that is where the criticism ends.
Everything from the technical aspects of editing and shot composition have been carefully thought out, and the acting from all is uniformly excellent. The message of class disposition is one that has been widely commented on this year, from the horror of Us to the drama of Joker, but Parasite is the best example in how it tackles this topic, Joon-ho taking the previous genres mentioned and being able to balance them into a darkly comedic storyline. The first hour alone has probably the best montage ever put to film and is edited immaculately by Yang Jin-Mo.
This is the most important film to come out in 2019, and there is not another film that deserved to win the best picture oscar more. I do think the third act could have been executed a tad bit better, but other than that, it is excellent. A
3026. Yorum: Finally got the chance to rewatch this at a theater near me and fuck, this film is just as effective as it was the first time, arguably more so. I won't try to repeat what I basically said in my previous review, but really from the very first shot to the very last. Bong Joon Ho takes us on an emotionally gripping journey that feels less like individual scenes, but more like each act feels like a grand symphony that transition into each other effortlessly.
I also wanna quickly touch on Parasites best picture win cause I was thinking about it as I was sitting down in my seat. I honestly expected to be the only one in the audience since this films been playing in this theater since October and it was decently crowded. It really is amazing that people have become gravitated to this film because of its win. Some people won't like that its subbed, but for the people who do get something out of Parasite its a possibility that it could be their gateway to exploring more foreign cinema. If Parasite can achieve that, it deserves the status of a classic in film. Masterpiece
3027. Yorum: We’ve had a screener of this since September but I just watched it because I’m an asshole, anyway it’s good
3028. Yorum: This film is phenomenal and deserves to be seen in cinema to witness the greatness!
3029. Yorum: 
3030. Yorum: I watched this again to celebrate the Oscar win and liked it even more. Absolutely stunning movie, perfect structure, perfect acting, perfect set design, perfect climax, and it succeeds in expressing clear and important messages. I'm also so happy to see it take the Number 1 spot of the letterbox top 250. This might not be in my favorites list but I'm always waiting for the next classic to be released and this has definitely solidified itself as a classic for decades to come as well as put a stir in the movie ecosystem.
Personally, even though I like The Godfather I was really happy to see it get knocked off the top spot. It feels like I know almost no one that thinks that's the best movie ever but having it be the number one movie for so long on this site and IMDb makes me think many people feel the pressure to give it an extremely high rating and perpetuate this. I think it's a good thing for us to take new films as seriously as old classics and not be afraid to challenge a film's merit.
3031. Yorum: Watched the last like 80 minutes of this since I had to leave 4 times during Bad Boys for Life and didn’t want to disturb them anymore and I wanted to relive the end of Parasite again. I’m going again tomorrow night with my friend that hasn’t seen it before so wish me luck because if she doesn’t love it idk if we’ll be friends anymore :/
3032. Yorum: 6th viewing and still picking up so much detail in the story. Showed the movie to two close friends on Valentine’s Day and they already cannot wait to pick up on more detail with future viewings. Also had a good discussion on it afterwards. They have great taste and are great friends😊
3033. Yorum: So, I passed Valentine's Day watching Parasite at the cinema with my best friend. My ex philosophy teacher from high school was sitting near me.
This film is just WOW, even if I had already watched it... EMOTIONS.
Song Kang-ho, you're officially one of my favourite actors 👌🏻
3034. Yorum: bong joon ho can have my first born
3035. Yorum: happy valentine’s day to oscar winning director bong joon-ho and the cast and crew of oscar winning film parasite only
3036. Yorum: Best Picture Winner: Parasite
Best Director Winner: Bong Joon-ho
Best Original Screenplay Winner: Bong Joon-ho and Han Jin-won
Best International Film Winner: South Korea
It's such a great feeling to see the birth of a classic. Just leaving a movie, knowing that this will be talked about for decades to come.
3037. Yorum: Absolutamente fenomenal em todos os sentidos, um verdadeiro exemplo de produção cinematográfica. Mistura brilhantemente a comédia, o drama, o suspense e o horror, levando seus muitos e muito bem escritos personagens ao limite, e além. Explora brilhantemente seu tema principal, seja através dos ótimos diálogos, seja através de inteligentes truques visuais, seja por mostrar na cara dura que certas pessoas, não importa o que façam, simplesmente fedem. E tudo isso só é possível e só chama tanto a atenção porque o roteiro, mesmo em seus momentos mais peculiares, é perfeitamente bem amarrado.
O que mais posso dizer? O filme dá uma verdadeira aula de cinema em praticamente tudo o que faz. Um 10/10 não está fora de cogitação.
3038. Yorum: SHE CAME TO WIIIIIIN!!!!! SHE CAME TO WIIIIIIIIIIIIN!!!!!
3039. Yorum: Film365 | Film #22
You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all.
Wow. What a masterpiece. I’m glad that I saw this before the Oscars ceremony this evening; I hope that the Academy recognises the brilliance of this film. It’s going straight into my top ten of all time and it might move even higher after a rewatch. Bong Joon-ho is a genius.
Excuse the bad pun, but Parasite is infectious in many regards. It is loaded with symbolism, foreshadowing and socio-political critique in such a nuanced way, made all the more impressive by the fact that such themes did not come across as preachy or in-your-face; rather, they were often manifest beneath the surface, or under the skin – the parasitic themes fundamentally and inextricably guiding the wider processes of the host, the film itself. In many respects, Parasite reminds me of Get Out , a film that I hold in the highest esteem.
Ultimately, when the credits roll, you are left to gravely reflect on an immeasurable number of issues, including but by no means limited to: capitalism, society, social class, wealth disparity, inequality, role performance, careers, life plans, climate change, the unfairness of life, and the interplay amongst these matters.
The quality runs throughout the fabric of this film, evident in its dialogue, cinematography, acting, direction, set, sound and production design, editing, score and every other facet. Yet, unlike some of the social factors presented by the film, these cinematic elements did not feel unbalanced, unequal or disproportionate; not one felt weak, undeveloped, underwhelming or unattended.
The entire cast did an exceptional job at bringing this narrative to life.
This film is going to be on my mind for a while for sure. I am already enjoying reading up on other people’s observations and interpretations, especially of things that I missed myself. There is no doubt in my mind that I will be rewatching this at least one or two more times over the coming weeks.
I have more that I want to say, but I am still in awe, so I'll save it for a rewatch review write up.
3040. Yorum: don’t fucking call me sis, you filthy bitch!
3041. Yorum: [BLACK & WHITE]
*SPOILERS*
“Black-and-white is the origin of cinema,” the South Korean director said in a statement. “Although I became a filmmaker in the 2000s, I idealize the beautiful black-and-white films by Renoir, Fellini, Kurosawa, John Ford, and the beautiful cinematography of Gregg Toland [Citizen Kane, The Grapes of Wrath]. I watched the black-and-white version [of Parasite] twice now, and at times the film felt more like a fable and gave me the strange sense that I was watching a story from old times,” he continued. “The second time I watched it, the film felt more realistic and sharp as if I was being cut by a blade. It also further highlighted the actors’ performances and seemed to revolve more around the characters.”
What's next, The Lighthouse in technicolor? 1917 with an FPS heads-up display? I should probably watch another movie now.
Was pretty iffy on this admittedly gimmicky concept during the opening act (the color in the hot sauce is sooooo necessary imo!) but once it goes into that whole extended domestic horror sequence it became clear to me that this version is a must-watch for fans of this film at some point--the shots of the rainy backyard, the creepy shadowy hallway tracking shots and the scenes involving the chaos of the Kim's flooded apartment all look amazing in stark black and white, adding a slick Noir-ish feel to an already potent Thriller. Nothing too terribly illuminating here, but watching a modern classic from this perspective was a ton of fun even on a 4th viewing.
Nothing but 존경 for my Best Picture winner!!!!
10
3042. Yorum: 
3043. Yorum: Each act builds toward the next with unpredictable choices, and the result is like nothing I’ve seen.  There are shades of Hitchcock in Bong Joon Ho’s construction of this film, but there’s an aesthetic all his own in the mood and control he has over the audience experience.  Hitchcock loved to have a desired effect on his audience, and there is a similar regard here.  There’s something to the idea of not being able to sense what’s coming, especially when it’s delivered unconventionally.  
            There seems to be a lot more going on underneath the surface thematically, and I can’t wait to dissect it more on future viewings.  For now, all I can say is that it is an original experience produced by a creative mind who took every minute detail into consideration.
3044. Yorum: A great movie that definitely lives up to the hype. As others have said it is probably better to watch this without knowing anything and halfway through the film I still didn't know anything. It subverts your expectations and blends genres like comedy, thriller, and even horror, and does them all well. It's very well directed and acted and the film is also kind of sad and speaks to deeper themes about class. Now I must go change my laundry detergent and insert myself into a rich celebrity's life.
3045. Yorum: This is not the best movie of the decade.
To me, Parasite is a paragon of perfect scores for modern films, overuse of the term "masterpiece", and a certainty that such plaudits will resurface with movies released just weeks or months later. It strikes me as a recency effect gone wild, signalling that a large swath of cinephiles willfully oppose rationality. The attributes of this phenomenon, it seems to me, are recency, notoriety, and quality.
I wouldn't frame an argument with these terms if they weren't historically important. For example, Kubrick's cinematic caché is a combination of notoriety and quality: making a lot of good movies earned him a reputation. While deserved, that reputation does not indemnify him from making crap, like Fear and Desire. Customarily, recency remains at a premium, which, I believe, is why makers like Christopher Nolan, Edgar Wright, Paul Thomas Anderson, Wes Anderson, and Rian Johnson are heralded as modern auteurs. They, too, are not indemnified from making crap: notoriety and recency may be worthy, but not when they obfuscate quality.
Put simply, I argue that we must separate the art from the artist and receive their work without preconception, because allowing notoriety to override a lack of quality does the maker a disservice in the same way that love without honesty does disservice to one's partner: how can we expect a filmmaker to flourish if we ignore new flaws because of prior success?
I voice these opinions not because Parasite is bad, or that its fans are wrong. I like Bong Joon-Ho, his movies, and think Parasite is good. Though I don't think it's a flawless "masterpiece", I also don't think my opinion outweighs that of anyone else - far from it. It just pains me to see people championing perfection in a subjective field, thus contributing to impossible expectations by proclaiming each new film the "best" or "greatest", only to forget that standard upon the release of the next movie they like.
I believe we do art a disservice by trying to instantaneously qualify a film's value in terms of that year, that decade, or its all-time placement in history. It's unreasonable, unfair, and, most importantly, a fool's errand. The fact that Parasite supplanted The Godfather as the top rated movie on Letterboxd is absurd. Not because I love The Godfather - I don't - or that this majority is right or wrong. It's because the closest thing art has to an arbiter is time: it's been 7 months since Parasite was released, 3 since it came out stateside, and yet, it's among the best films of all time because everyone just saw it (recency), it's generally agreed that Bong Joon-Ho is a good filmmaker (notoriety), and he made a good film (quality). I don't think checking those three boxes sufficiently earns such a distinction, for reasons I will happily explain.
First, the Oscars pull this same trick: the best movies don't come out in November/December, just the ones are positioned to win Oscars, because Academy voters can't be expected to remember what they watched in January (with Silence of the Lambs being an obvious exception). This is a big part of why Green Book won Best Picture despite just being good.
Second, quite a few people in 2016 felt La La Land was the best film of the decade. Some cross section of that group felt the same way about Mad Max: Fury Road the previous year. Do they still? It took 16 years for Citizen Kane to be hailed as one of the greatest films of all time. Is it? I don't know.
Third, I believe it's important to be reasonable in assessing film and reconciling passion with taste. We can love bad movies. We can hate good ones. We can, and should, disagree on the which and the why. I think it's crucial to recognize the difference between loving something in spite of its flaws, appreciating craft even if it doesn't register with us personally, and taking the time to evaluate whether the thing we've just seen is truly better than all the things we've seen.
Summarily, I believe that, though Parasite is a good film, it cannot be considered among the best of the decade. I'm happy that people like it, that it made a bundle of money, and that it's become a groundbreaking Oscar nominee. I don't begrudge those who love it, nor do I think that love stems from bad faith or judgement. I do, however, think that the two most disturbing trends in modern movie consumption involve polarized opinions (that films are either "bad" or "good") and the unjustified notion that the newest films must be the best films, which strikes me as a side-effect of the former.
So, let's talk about Parasite in a year. Or five. Or twenty, by which time dozens of superior films may have been released. This notion doesn't appeal to our sense of recency or notoriety, but it goes a long way toward understanding quality. And, when we think of it, isn't quality, that beautifully subjective, transient, and personal element of film analysis, the most important attribute in the end?
Please accept that this review is not comprised of facts or assertions, but opinions. And I wouldn't be here if I wasn't interested in yours.
3046. Yorum: I decided to rewatch this movie again. Not because of just Cho Yeo-jeong and Park So-Dam😩😍. but because the plot is great 😂😂.
Real talk though, I wanted to bring this up cause currently rewatching it blew my mind, I just noticed how the camera work is used to the best damn degree to convey a sense of space around the characters. The movie opens up using tight camera movements to convey how our characters of a lower class are in such a tight crammed space and how hard it is for them to even navigate in the area. It’s a great contrast to the camera work when we are around characters of a higher economic status where the camera conveys their space as more loose. Leaving room to move around more freely since they are less constrained than their lower income counter parts. 
Once the lower income characters begin to invade the space of the others, the style of the camera showing them in a way that feels claustrophobic carries with them. Conveying how hard it is to escape such a life style. Always a shitty situation. This movie is brilliant. Holy shit😩💦
3047. Yorum: my favorite part is hearing everyone in the theater whisper “oh my god” afterward
3048. Yorum: one of the most immaculately-crafted movies i’ve ever seen. and so metaphorical.
3049. Yorum: It only took months and months, but I finally saw Parasite, the movie that everyone has been talking about -- and now I see why it has started so many conversations, garnered numerous accolades, and ended up on a plethora of Best-of-2019 lists. It is hard to describe to those who have not seen it, and I am glad that people have kept the twists secretive. The less you know about it, the better. Boon Joon-Ho, who directed the fascinating dystopian English-language film Snowpiercer, has crafted a film about two vastly different Korean families whose lives collide in unexpected ways. Parasite is, at times, hilarious without being too silly, thrilling without being unbelievable, and heartbreaking without being corny. Writer-director Ho has called it a "tragicomedy," which seems about right; what starts as a satire about a lower class unemployed Korean family infiltrating an upper class family turns into something else entirely, and that's what make the film so engaging and brilliantly inventive. You never know what is going to happen, or when the tone will change drastically within minutes. The entire cast is excellent, with a standout performance by Song Kang-Ho as the well-meaning, caring father of the lower class family. Even when it veers away from the satirical to a more serious tone, Parasite never loses its focus on the enormous gaps in lifestyles and personalities of those in the lower and upper classes - no matter where you live.
3050. Yorum: Holy moly. Nobody was kidding around when they said this was one of if not the best picture of 2019. 
I can’t find a single fault in it. 
Wow.
3051. Yorum: Parasite is a movie that I have wanted to see, and finally got around to it. I love the director a lot, and this might be one of his best works yet and also a good choice for my favorite movie of the year. The movie has a lot of things to say, many of which I won’t say here because the movie is best experienced knowing the least about it possible.
I will say that the movie isn’t as much a horror film as some might want to say. It certainly has its moments, but don’t go in expecting a full on horror. Be prepared to follow an entire spectrum of emotions and genres including horror, comedy, drama, thriller, etc. It really does cover a lot of ground, which makes the movie even more amazing in how it all comes together.
And it really does come together. It’s a masterclass in building a story, and displaying the themes that it wanted. The movie never becomes boring either with displaying its more “arthouse” elements either. The movie never really feels pretentious. Instead it feels like a true cinematic master displaying a story to the best of his ability.
The acting is all really strong, and the cinematography is stunning. Parasite is a must see movie one that will get people talking. I can see mainstream audiences liking this one too, as the movie portrays its story without getting too awful crazy with the more arthouse elements. My highest recommendations.
Score Breakdown:
Technical Meter - 10
Fun - o - Meter - 10
Combined Score - 10
3052. Yorum: bong joon ho is coming for an Oscar and also title of my personal favourite film of 2019, and one of these is more meaningful and worthy than the other, and yes it’s the latter
3053. Yorum: Parasite is a full movie. Even some of my favorite films aren't full movies. And by full, I mean Parasite features a rainbow of emotions that you can expect to feel while watching this movie. It's a dramady, disguised as a thriller, disguised as a social commentary. It's extremely relevant worldwide, but more so in America and Korea. It's always fun to experience history firsthand and to watch a film you know will become a classic for the generations to come.
3054. Yorum: smoking a cig on the exploding toilet... a 2020 mood
3055. Yorum: 
3056. Yorum: Started the year off with a bang.
Some second viewing thoughts:
- Lots of windows, and interesting ways to frame windows
- The movie is so well written and rewards you if you know the twists of the narrative going in
- I really wanna try Ramdon
- Parasite would be a fantastic double feature with High and Low, and I think the fact that the son is obsessed with Native Americans could be a reference to how the son is obsessed with cowboys in Kurosawa’s film (I may be reaching though)
- The fact that an American remake is already in the works is so enraging, and after this rewatch I’m tryna fight these producers who wanna ruin a masterpiece
- I wanna see the alternate cut where there’s an added scene where Min comes home and finds out about everything
- The first time I saw it, I was in an empty theater. Tonight I was with my girlfriend and one of my other best friends in a packed theater. Everyone ooh’d and ah’d when they were supposed to and I really think this film is meant to be seen in a packed theater. This is elevated cinema that is meant to be experienced by homies everywhere bro.
3057. Yorum: decent film but why are all y’all bowing down and worshipping it
3058. Yorum: Simultaniously the most fun and stressful film experience I've had all year. Can't think of a single thing about this that I didn't enjoy.
3059. Yorum: I enter the cinema from a society that obscures class, venerates wealth, villainizes poverty.
I sit in the chair, and a film begins on the screen, and as the film progresses, I feel that I am being handed a heavy, exquisitely-wrapped gift.
I open the gift carefully. It is a clockwork diorama with a wind-up key, made of highly-polished copper. When wound, it depicts ten people in a house, swerving and dancing around one another. The mechanism must be impossibly complex; the full span of the action takes two hours to complete.
In the space of those two hours, the machine-diorama's purpose becomes evident: it reveals the striations of class, exposes the complacency of wealth, allows a clearer view of the desperation of poverty. It is didactic to its most basic machinery. And yet it entertains.
When I return to the society that made me, my mind is equipped with a clockwork machine that demonstrates 'what is'. Once in a while, a Parasite comes along. Marvel at the power of the clockmakers.
3060. Yorum: 2019: Ranked (so far). 
The only film this year to leave me completely speechless. I am lost for words. Bong has outdone himself.
3061. Yorum: Fuck The Godfather.
3062. Yorum: Was originally going to make this entry just the TMZ headline of when Kevin Hart defended throwing a Cowboys and Indians party for his son, but we seem to be Having A Moment with this so here’s what I have to say. While many have already drawn parallels to this and Us, the discourse surrounding Parasite reminds me most of Get Out. The same initial wave of IMO deserved acclaim and success followed by thoughtful criticism of its politics/target audience which is then interpreted in the most bad faith possible by defenders as unquestionably stemming from some overblown sense of malicious intent etc.; all the while, I remain steadfast in my love for it because while I can see how anyone would mount a “too neo-lib/slick” argument, I think there’s immense worth in populist filmmaking along these lines and respectfully disagree with those who think otherwise. I also am pretty unbothered by the broad gestures it takes (especially near the end) cause I just don’t have the same allergy to didacticism a lot of you seem to have and will gladly accept Thesis Moments if they’re played logically and convincingly enough! Ok cool spiel over here’s the bullshit I was going to post in the first place have a nice day everyone amp.tmz.com/2018/11/28/kevin-hart-defends-son-birthday-party-cowboys-indians-racist-backlash/
3063. Yorum: This SEND button is like a missle launcher!
Holy fuck. If this ain’t the movie of 2019... this thing came out at the perfect time in the perfect state. It’s no exaggeration to say that this shit is pure euphoric cinema. It’s just all planned so accordingly, the attentive attention to details are so far deep inside of the roots, I just literally cannot comprehend this level of filmmaking. The rewatch of this was a BLAST! This flew the fuck by! I was so worried it would lose some charm by a 2nd viewing but nope. I overheard people say, “Why would I ever watch a movie with subtitles? Why would I read?” What a shame on those arrogant pricks for missing out on the cinema event of the year. This makes me want to make a movie right now.
3064. Yorum: Lately I've been thinking a lot about a script writer's target audience. Specifically, the baseline of intelligence they take for granted. By 'intelligence' I mean both raw brain computing power but also knows the language of storytelling - i.e. wrote a dissertation on "Chekhov's gun."
A script that doesn't demand much will have tons of exposition, a singular theme and motivation, characters and settings everybody can relate to.
And while pretentious scriptwriters conflate vagary and domain specific knowledge for making smart cinema, brilliant artists who aim high render films like Discreet Charm or Synecdoche because they are happy to write-off large swaths of audiences who... um... well... won't get it.
You're going to read a lot of reviews that comment on the number of genres this film bends and blends. But what I found fascinating was the multiple levels of intelligence it serves so well. As in: really thoroughly slaughters.
Consider the diversity of the reviews here at LBX. People looking for nothing but a visceral experience are in for a great rollercoaster of lovable and relatable characters, fun and funny plot points and harrowing hairpin turns. All the while, the film simultaneously feeds the geekiest cinefile with years worth of teasing apart the allegories, signposts, tells, winks and nods; not to mention the very thoughtful, high-falutin thematic raw meat for shut-ins whose idea of a well spent Friday night is watching two hour of Harari and Diamond discussing the state of the human condition.
You may not agree with the filmmaker's point of view but I can't imagine an axis on which the film itself can be criticized. I'm not going to commit to saying this is a film without flaws, I'm just saying I didn't see any of them on the first viewing.
3065. Yorum: Can I get a HOLY SHIT??
I need to see this again as soon as possible. What a wild ride. Everything looked and sounded incredible and I literally had no clue where it was headed. When it did get to that big twist part... I was left speechless. Go see this movie.
Watched at Alamo Drafthouse Cinema.
3066. Yorum: I’ve never heard anyone revere Illinois before this film
3067. Yorum: Two families interacting in surprising and unexpected ways.
3068. Yorum: 
3069. Yorum: It's always interesting to see movies like this in the theater, surrounded by other people reactions, when a director forces viewers to recognize that that joke they were laughing at a few minutes ago -- here, comments about the stench of certain people -- aren't so funny when you can't pretend they don't have class connotations. It's impossible to befriend the ruling class, who pit working class people against each other and make them believe that the rich are actually their saviors. At best, the ruling class will only ever let you be their dirty basement dwellers, necessary bodies for the upkeep of luxury, but best if not seen, heard, or (god forbid) smelled.
3070. Yorum: i couldn't have enjoyed that more
it's brilliant it's heartbreaking it's beautiful it's real
3071. Yorum: Even better the second time. And watching this with a full crowd in a theater this time was amazing. 
My full review> parasite review
3072. Yorum: Less about class warfare, more about class survival: the poor fighting each other over the rich's scraps, while servitude is a role to play in front of the cameras. Bong Joon-ho is one of the most playful present-day filmmakers, and in Parasite he is at his most mischievous. I totally understand the "masterpiece" chants. And yet... Some people on this website are making interesting comparisons and contrasts with Jordan Peeles's Us, so let me add one of my own: situations, set-pieces, and the effects that Bong can create with them is what matters the most to him. Peele is more interested in his characters, they are more vivid – he never leaves a character, it's one of the reasons that Us often feels inflated. Meanwhile, Bong abandons the younger characters for the older ones (a big mistake, in my opinion) as soon as he loses interest in them, only returning when he needs them to bookend his picture.
3073. Yorum: Near perfect.
3074. Yorum: As pitch-perfect as a film can be, Bong Joon-Ho's Parasite seamlessly blends drama, thriller, comedy, horror and satire into a breathless, shape-shifting rollercoaster of a cinematic gem. Early frontrunner for best film of 2019.
3075. Yorum: Wow... Just Wow
3076. Yorum: parasite drew full-body physical reactions from me like almost no other film has. the excruciatingly tense and twisty story, especially that endless night in the house, were impossible to look away from, even as the deception and indulgence evolved from mischievous and hilarious to horrifically brutal and desperate. the sickening lengths that the lower class must go to for survival, and the frequent inability to let go of the idea of wealth (it’s so…metaphorical), are presented through different lenses - witty one minute, melancholy the next - that never clash. in conclusion…we’re getting bong joon-ho that oscar
3077. Yorum: What's the purpose of a film review really? To tell the reader if a movie is good? Parasite is. To help you decide if you should bother seeing it? You absolutely should. And then, finally, to lay out the premise of the plot, critique the artistic decisions of the cast and crew, and discuss what the film is revealing about modern day society, all without giving the film’s secrets away? Well, that’s a bit trickier a task when it comes to this film. Parasite is difficult enough to categorise and discuss with someone who’s already watched it, much less with people who haven’t yet seen it.
Bong Joon-ho is a filmmaker who’s worked in a variety of different genres. He’s done science fiction, true crime thriller, drama, and monster movies. But what makes him such a distinct and notable writer and director is the way he plays with and puts his own spin on these genres, injecting comedy or fantastical elements where one wouldn’t normally expect to find it.
You can read the rest of my review (spoiler free, which is not easily done) here.
3078. Yorum: Watched at IFC Center in New York City
SPOILERS
Round 2 of Parasite, and I was equally enthralled. While I wasn't as tense watching this time because of knowing the twists, I definitely felt sadder during this viewing, knowing the characters' fates throughout.
Certainly, this movie is a tragedy. Watching Ki-woo's dream of himself buying the Park family's doomed home so that Ki-taek can return to the surface without hiding broke my heart even more this time around. 
As Ki-taek says in the gym to his son, "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned." I'm afraid that Ki-woo will be disappointed by this "plan" he has for himself, and he knows that, as you see him gaze sadly while freezing at home.
A beautiful, but crushing ending.
The Native American/American Indian element of the story made more sense to me this time around. Knowing American history, Native Americans were basically run out of their homes through violence & disease, and now are left to just reservations spread sparsely around the country. Lots of connections to be made between their fates and the fates of the characters within Parasite.
The script is incredibly tight. The beginning of the movie felt even faster for me. Of course, some liberties are taken to progress the plot, like the "simple-mindedness" of Yeon-kyo. Much like the upper class family in Jordan Peele's Us, it makes sense that certain decisions can be made more on a whim -- because they've always had the money & security to make such decisions.
Again, so much to unpack from this movie. I can't wait to watch it again, share this movie with others, and pick up on something I didn't notice on these first two viewings.
Also, with Crazy Rich Asians, The Farewell, and now this, it's great seeing Asian culture/Asian creators being embraced by mainstream audiences. Makes me happy.
3079. Yorum: bong owns my whole ass. amazing. so funny! so sad! somehow fantastical?! beautiful cinematography--HE HAND-DRAWS THE STORYBOARDS HIMSELF! truly struck by that shot of the stairs in the rain, with the family going down, down, down, down. only thing missing for me was a scammer montage cut to a talking heads song, which would have made it the greatest film ever made. still, comes pretty close!
after joker i was feeling kinda depressed about the state of film, how so much popular cinema THESE DAYS is just emulating stuff that already exists...then here comes bong, making genre-defining works (ari, yorgos, jordan, sup?). thank goodness! people, not just corporations, are still making art! cool.
anyway after this i'm convinced bong joon ho is the only person qualified to make the Caroline Calloway story
3080. Yorum: Director Bong Joon-ho (Snowpiercer) takes his work to the next level in Parasite, a film likely to be my favorite of 2019. It may even make my "best films of the 21st century" list!
A family of grifters living on the margins of society manage to work their way into the lives of wealthy, idealized professonals/socialites. Driven by excellent dialog, the story seamlessly moves from droll to hilarious to horrifying over the course of 130 minutes. The strong story is boosted by some of the best performances I've seen this year. It was easy for me to forget I was watching actors.
But it's the art design and cinematography that really manage to blast the film over the top into classic territory. The house where most of the film is shot is breathtaking and perfect for contrasting the lives of the two opposing families. And the shot composition? It truly took my breath away. Each shot was so perfectly framed, it brought to mind no less than Andrei Tarkovsky (!!) for the meticulous nature of every frame. Certainly it doesn't reach the towering heights of a Kubrick or Tarkovsky film (seriously, what does?), but it's visual perfection marks Parasite as the work of director approaching a similar level of brilliance.
There is a whole thematic class struggle message flowing under the entire story, but I hardly had time to notice it, much less analysize it. I'll leave the critical theory to those who enjoy the more academic side of cinema. For me, a splendid looking film plus stellar acting plus a wild yet grounded story plus loads of laughs and gasps equals sheer cinematic bliss. It's one of the few must-see films of 2019.
3081. Yorum: 
3082. Yorum: this did to rich people what gone girl did to men and let me tell you its glorious
3083. Yorum: PLEASE don't watch the stupid leak. I can't imagine anyone watching this on a tiny ass laptop screen. 
Parasite was definitely the wildest of this year. At one point I felt my entire row tense up as we were just shell-shocked by it's final act; especially after all the laughs we had. Can't believe I had the pleasure of watching this masterpiece after missing out on so many screenings!!
3084. Yorum: Aristotle wrote that metaphors by analogy are most well-liked, and it’s not hard to see why through the case of Parasite. It’s a digestibly biting piece of class commentary in classic Bong Joon-Ho fashion. The film follows the broke and unemployed Kim family as they infest their way into working for the affluent Park family. The delectable pleasure of a scam turns sour once a seedier class below the Kim's (literally) is revealed and gnaws through their ruse.
Which demands the question: How far can (or should) a metaphor go? Verbal metaphors are cognitively different from the visual metaphors that can be constructed in cinema. The latter has the potential to be a spatial-temporal proposition, which is why the spatial composition of the film operates most strongly: evoking claustrophobia, despair, and desire in the stratified architecture of the Park mansion. But the dynamics of other metaphors in the film are so rigid and bland that it is difficult to claim them as true metaphors (why even bother metaphorizing?).
Metaphors are overextended when they too definitively settle on literal truth values, when they guide audiences into a flattened discursive practice (which I find pretty exasperating if the film is meant to be half about deception). So towards the end when the film forces itself to create resolute conclusions, by way of action, force, and closure—that’s when the metaphor falls apart. Parasite closes in upon the confines of its own metaphor (“It’s so metaphorical!”) until it finally collapses.
3085. Yorum: one of the best films of the year, without a doubt
3086. Yorum: Yikes.
Parasite is about a poor Korean family that swindles a really rich one into thinking they're all highly professional tutors, drivers and maids, and all end up working for them in their house, acting out their roles. Everything is fine until they make a startling discovery.
This was something. I leaned in towards the screen watching this, and it's just bustling with energy. The first half weaves a rug of delightful absurdist comedy which is surreal and hysterical, and the second half swiftly and violently janks that rug away, by which time you're more than likely hooked already.
Beautifully photographed in every sense of the word, wonderfully acted and just undeniably vivid, this is most definitely a film that deserves to be seen. Just be prepared for anything, and I really do mean anything. The shift is at times so exceedingly abrupt that it left me a little bit stunned, and you have to swallow some plot conveniences in the name of boldness, but bold it sure is. I'll say this though, and this time I truly mean it: I have never seen a film quite like this one, even though it's like showering in cozy warm water that suddenly crashes down on you ice cold. It's also 135 minutes long, but being that both halves steal your attention, it never felt that long.
I think this will stay with me for some time, and the moral is pretty clear: the rich dance unassuming upon the backs and the tragedies of the poor. If you can spare an evening, strap yourself in and be amazed.
3087. Yorum: WAT. WOW. parasite is filled with layers and layers of complexity and still remains to be entirely fluid and fit right in together. i just hope this comes out in theaters near me so i have a chance to watch it on the big screen WHAAAT
3088. Yorum: Still amazed by how good Parasite is.
Touching on a myriad of themes like class-disparity, technology, americanization, and the Korea conflict, it is above all a perfect thriller. Not a single scene is wasted, tension is underlying in every one.
The first half had me a little reluctant, I had no idea where such a set-up could lead, all I knew was that it would somehow turn brutal. And yes it did!!! Bong is an amazing director and cuts between violent and serene scenes with the touch of a master. He managed to create an ironic and absorbing genre-bending masterpiece that deserves the utmost praise.
Scavenger Hunt #11
3089. Yorum: Amazing storytelling coupled with beautiful direction. I found a lot of the acting a bit so-so and one or two characters ever so slightly uninteresting...but the way the plot unfolds and the almost unbearable tension was absolutely masterful. I can definitely understand the hype - superb.
3090. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho conjures yet another great film filled to the brim with social critique and reflection. As with much of Snowpiercer, this film’s body takes on social division and inequality, and puts the spotlight on the attitude of those from the top towards those at the bottom and vice versa.
Bong’s film follows a pattern I’ve started to become accustomed to as I’ve watched more and more Korean cinema, and as the story moves on there is a recognizable echo of Park Chan-wook’s The Handmaiden. It loves to turn situations upside down and it effortlessly shifts tone from one sequence to another, from one scene to the next. At times, especially during the opening, it is often hilarious and innocent, but as the web of deception grows ever bigger and more flimsy you’re pushed towards the same edge as our protagonists. It becomes increasingly dramatic and emotional while still guiding you through scenes that are both funny and downright frightening. The film is like a chameleon, in that it changes depending on what’s required to progress the story and keep suspense, no matter the scene, and it does so expertly. I found the characters more static in comparison, but not necessarily in a bad way; they very much act as representations of the themes Bong has loaded the script with. The two sets of families are polar opposites yet the lines between the characters blur throughout the film and there is no black and white here. They show contempt and disgust, as well as appreciation and a certain sense of admiration towards each other.
There are few cracks to find on a technical level. Bong is confident in his handling and it really shines with his direction. It’s slick and beautiful, and nearly each image begs to be taken a closer look at. It rarely loses its pace even when it tries to misdirect you and divert you. Some turns in the screenplay came off as a bit cheap compared to how intricate the rest was, and the pattern can be predictable, but thanks to the great pacing and how suspenseful it gets, it doesn’t loosen its grip.
Not only does Parasite take you for a truly enjoyable and exciting ride, its ending, subtext and social commentary leaves a lot to think about and covers several topics that are not simply exclusive to South Korea, but universal.
3091. Yorum: I don't think any movie has messed me up this much in a very long time. Once again, Joon-ho Bong proves himself worthy of his reputation as one of the most talented contemporary filmmakers working - in South Korea, and worldwide as well. With Parasite, he just might have jumped up to the very top of my list of favorites, and after I have previously only seen three of his films (Okja, Memories of Murder and Snowpiercer), there is now no way anymore I am going to postpone catching up on his other films any longer.
This film is a masterpiece. From the first frame to the very last, the film is wonderfully shot and edited, the characters are incredibly well-drawn, the story is compelling, rich and complex, provocative and shocking. And when I say shocking, I do in fact mean your-jaw-will-drop-on-the-floor shocking. I loved every minute of this film, and honestly, that's about everything you should be reading about this if you haven't seen it yet. I didn't know anything about the film other than that it somehow deals with some kind of home invasion, and you should really try to avoid spoilers or trailers and just watch this. You won't regret it.
2019 Ranked
Neon Ranked
Bong Joon-Ho's Films Ranked
Featured in: Great Movies
3092. Yorum: Devious and ingenious dramedy that coils and locks into place seemlessy. It’s after the springloaded climax where the film loses a bit of balance. Still, can’t think of a film as stylish, hilarious, and gorgeously shot from this year.
3093. Yorum: someone hit me in the head with a rock cos i wanna watch this for the fourth time and be amazed again
3094. Yorum: 
3095. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho’s most entertaining film to date, blending family drama with dark comedy. As the momentum picks up for the third act it becomes a heart pounding thriller with high stakes. The film also works as an intricate social commentary piece, exploring the harmony and divide between the low and high social classes in South Korean society through paralleling both families. Bong Joon-ho does a great job in creating an ambitious allegory depicting various social pressures without blaming a particular group in society, but rather cleverly blurs the lines between right and wrong through flawed-yet relatable characters. While I very much enjoyed Parasite and highly recommend it, some of the plot choices in the epilogue felt out of place and impacted the film’s momentum for me.
3096. Yorum: i don’t think i’ve ever seen anything like this. 
very entertaining and interesting plot. also the last 20-10 minutes were very intense. had the best cinema experience with this film for sure. 
the only word i can think of to describe this film - masterpiece.
3097. Yorum: Судя по отзывам, Джун-хо для кого-то всё ещё молодой и перспективный автор, но на самом деле он, конечно, закоренелый мастер, что "Gisaengchung" только подтверждает. Про фильм уже много что сказано, и я не скажу ничего нового. Феноменальная работа со сценарием, персонажами и визуальным рядом (оператор "Beoning", на секунду) заставляют задуматься о том, а надо ли смотреть другие фильмы вообще - ведь лучше не будет. Сон Кан-хо и остальной актерский состав - высочайшая похвала. Социальное кино давно не было таким жестким, наглым, едким и смешным. Однозначно, еще один мини-шедевр режиссера "Memories of Murder".
3098. Yorum: a masterpiece. it's a tapestry of different genres, woven together to create a sharply coherent image, which in other hands could have been a jumbled mess of colour. the opening scenes work so well as an intriguing yet homely comedy that the film doesn't really need to give anything more - but man, does it give more. every scene is a masterclass in construction. it's unpredictable but not messy, clever but not obnoxious, and funny, but by the end, not fun. quite simply a work of genius and the best film of the year so far.
3099. Yorum: Going in, I knew the last 20 minutes would take a turn, but HOLY SHIT, I did not expect that!
3100. Yorum: This is a sharp look at class and psychology, peeling back layers like it’s dissecting a fractured mind. For me, the Park family’s house says it all. The upper levels are all about appearances—wealth and aspiration—while the basement is where the uncomfortable truths hide. It’s like Freud’s model of the psyche: the conscious mind on display above and the repressed trauma shoved below. When that basement comes to the surface, it’s like watching years of tension and denial break through, and it unravels everything.
The way the two families interact is just as layered. The Kims idolise the Parks but resent their privilege, while the Parks rely on the Kims without even acknowledging it. They don’t see them as people, just tools, and the recurring comments about Ki-taek’s “subway smell” hit hard. It’s not just about smell—it’s a constant reminder of the Kims’ place in the social hierarchy, something they can’t escape no matter how hard they try.
When it all spirals into violence, it doesn’t feel surprising. It’s like everything simmering under the surface finally boils over. That moment of them snapping feels like years of repression and humiliation exploding all at once. It’s not just about one person’s anger—it’s about the weight of a system that crushes people until they break.
The ending hit me the hardest, it’s framed like hope but it’s so clearly out of reach. Bong Joon-ho doesn’t give us easy answers nor solutions—he just holds up a mirror to a broken system and lets us sit with it. Parasite is about what people bury and what happens when it all comes to light. It’s clever, devastating, and hard to shake off.
3101. Yorum: it shouldn't have taken the academy to make a foreign film the best picture winner this long
3102. Yorum: Wow this is just simply a masterpiece.
I’m not very surprised with how good this film was, I knew the hype around this film and about how good it was. But dang was this a masterpiece. 
This is the best Korean film I’ve ever seen and I see it becoming one of my favorite films of all time in the future.
This was just a visually stunning experience and meets my expectations for being a masterpiece. This film left me stunned, and overall this film was just highly intriguing and thrilling.
This film is outstanding and deserves all the attention.
5/5⭐️
3103. Yorum: Guys. I was recently recommended this movie by a user named Guymera. I had always heard that this was a well reviewed and respected movie but I had no idea what was awaiting me. Honestly I am quite speechless. This made my stomach hurt but in the fun way like getting on a rollercoaster. There was also a part towards the middle that I thought my chest was going to explode. What started as a tense and calculated scheme spiraled into chaos that could never repair what was lost, all handled and shot with such beauty and care. I also like how it is mean to rich people and the upper class. Not to be crude, but rich people are a**holes who often spit on the lower class so I did not feel bad for too much of what they got, even if they weren't the worst people. This movie is wild guys. Guymera thank you for showing me this instant classic. I can see myself watching this for years to come and I can easily recommend this to many. I have a feeling that America will remake this one day and it will be the worst movie I have ever seen. But at least we have this. Cherish the little things.
3104. Yorum: Collection: Academy Award for Best Picture
Year In Progress: 2019
November 1st, 2019

[9.2]
“What are you, a family of charlatans?”
Looking back I think 2019 will go down as one of the best years in film, it’s rich with so many original ideas and refined auteurist visions, only made even more special by the fact that Hollywood was collectively and creatively bankrupt in the following years due to the pandemic and the juggle of streaming revenues advantageous claim to success, leaving us with what I’ll consider the last great year of film. For now.
It remains to be seen if we’ll ever return to some semblance of output, or a normalcy, that breeds such fascinating results as that year, but for now, we’ll have to pick our favorite bits out of the bottom of the soup while they keep chucking out formula driven products to statically rake in as much money as a movie possibly can. And as of late, I’ve started to feel, it really isn’t about the art any more, at least not in a larger sense.
But it does always astound me that after almost one hundred years, Parasite (2019) marks the first time a non-English film ever won the Academy Award for Best Picture. And looking back, I don’t really know I have a specific moment to hone in on, possibly around Argo (2012), or the weak back to back winners of The Shape of Water (2017) and Green Book (2018), but I had reach a point of disillusionment with the Academy’s interpretation of quality. And in light of that, in the following years, beginning to dip my toes into the waters of other awards such as the Palmes d’Or at Cannes or the People’s Choice Award at TIFF, and finding in their juries, a much more open and rounded approach to viewing cinema.
With all that in mind, when sitting down to see this film in 2019, I had to truly question if this may have been my first personal experience, if not at least the most prominent cultural crossovers of international cinema into the America zeitgeist, that I would witness first hand. The next closest example I could point to, exists beyond my age of film watching, and would probably be the rave worldwide success of Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (2000), another rare moment in which a general public found themselves unified and aware of a foreign film, in a way that is usually only capable of reaching those more actively engaged in the medium.
This phenomenon, whether responsible for its future Best Picture win, or a direct result of it, was truly a thing to behold at the time. And it’s certainly no surprise that a film so deeply drenched in themes of class and capital, is able to cross those barriers and usual cultural trappings, to tell this elaborate but somehow almost universally applicable narrative of deceit, status, and jealousy. And while all of this is director and writer Bong Joon-Ho’s usual set of ingredients and commentary, he’s able to succeed in forming his most refined, engaging, and creatively bizarre attempt yet.
Using a simple and ingenious setup, we focus in on the Kim family, struggling and impoverished, slowly worming their way into the good graces and rich finances of a wealthy family, the Park’s. The first domino falls as Kim Ki-woo, son of the family, is visited by an old college friend Min, who, before leaving the country on a study abroad, tasks Ki-woo with tutoring the daughter of the Park family, Da-hye, who, by Min’s own admission, is a child with whom Min intends to romantically court in the longer run.
Immediately we’re presented with a set of circumstances and relationships with an intention that any normal person would fundamentally reject if presented with the situation themselves, but diving headfirst into this elaborate and ever unfolding dynamic of the Kim family’s building lies and goals, the game starts to form. And it’s easy for them to get their foot in the door, for even after going through the process of forging documents and feigning a higher education, all with the help of his sister Ki-jung, Ki-woo is hired by the Park family, on Min’s recommendation alone. We’ve clearly established the tones and attitudes of the naive, but circumstantially dangerous Park family, who despite being the victims of this con, will always wield an upper hand.
This disparity is always, so excellently portrayed by the cast, as well as so smartly written into the DNA of the film, represented through so many subtle mannerisms, smells, tastes, sight reactions, building onto the torrential suffering that the Kim’s endure, whilst trying to engage in this class chess game with the people they work for, completely unaware of the fact that below all of them, sits an entirely separate board, and game to be played.
One of Parasite (2019)’s biggest strengths, and the thing I remember enjoying the most on my first watch about four years ago, was its strong ability and frequent skill in take every expectation of how the presented situation will play out, and still succeed in flipping you on your head six times over, using that unrelenting sabotaging of its own film language to execute a truly riveting final act of the film.
So impressively by the end, accomplishing the incredible feat of stacking all its moving parts into an intensely wobbling Jenga tower that we don’t realize has no intention of falling over, not on accident at least, as one could say in those final moments, deliberately knocking itself to the ground in its final attempt at conveying the idea that maybe in the midst of chaos and drama, there is no class, only victims of circumstance. That at the end of the blade, the Kim’s and the Park’s, are all the same, right?
Maybe. Maybe not. But no action or resolution will bring back the dead, and no amount of money, is ever within their grasp to freedom from the status they’re bound to.
I need to run back and give Bong Joon-Ho a more full and fair shake, but as it stands today, I believe this is far and away his best film.
3105. Yorum: Added a banger to Netflix
3106. Yorum: eating the rich in a way that messes with their heads and slowly destroys their lives
3107. Yorum: 
3108. Yorum: Good god this is a good movie
3109. Yorum: Stfu I know I’m late. Yes it was absolutely amazing.
3110. Yorum: first rewatch in years ;)
everything is just so goddamn good from the first to very last frame.
3111. Yorum: Parasite will always have a special place in my heart, not only because it is a masterpiece but also because it opened the doors to international films on a bigger stage. It winning that Oscar was indeed one of the most significant cinematic moments, it made the world cinema to recognize many more regional works. It is that one classic film which revolutionized the cinematic experience for whole film industries and hence the recent growth and popularity of Regional cinemas across the common audience!
If it wasn't for this film majority of people would have the taboo of International films hard to be followed as they believed reading subtitles while watching a film with different language than what they understood was not smooth watching experience. If it wasn't for this cinema, Naatu Naatu wouldn't have won the Oscar, if it wasn't for this cinema, we wouldn't have had Asian ethnic people winning best actors and actress, if it wasn't for this cinema, we wouldn't have watched so many of best International films.
I remember watching it back in sometime around August 2019, and was immediately blown away with it's story depth, symbolisms and the high technical values, (production design, camera moments, anxiety inducing score) and knew it would definitely make it into the Oscars but I had my doubts because not even for once a foreign film won that, even if they were extremely well crafted and best of the whole lot like In the mood for love, Infernal Affairs, Incendies and Oldboy! And when the film won that and bong went on to deliver that lovely speech, I was no less happier than any other Korean or the legend Scorsese himself!
Talking about the film, from the opening sequence itself, we can see masterful command of Bong-Joon Ho over the storytelling that he creates a certain atmosphere for both the places, one's where Kims live, a slum with their stay being in a basement signifying their economical status to be a low class that's totally exposed to others with people even urinating over their walls and the other is of the high end society where the Parks live, that Ki-woo literally had to walk uphill to reach, again it being a symbol for their high class status and being totally secured and sealed from the outside environment with architecture being a sight to behold added that status essence to it.
And he has written the script so meticulously well that using these atmospheres, framing and dialogues in the film not only he does great social commentary about class differences in a very effortless and realistic manner, but also does a great foreshadowing of what's to come while giving us certain hints but making sure to reveal various layers of the film at the right moment. He smartly infuses his mark of dark humor in these sequences while also giving us some chilling and fun twists that alter the character motivations but stay to their character traits!
For instance, we assume it to be just funny but normal when Mr. Park says the previous housemaid used to eat the meals of two people but it is a great foreshadowing of the reveal that's about to come. And the one about why Mrs. Park keeps insisting that her son takes art therapy wasn't revealed earlier when asked but was brought forward at just the right moment amplifying that reasoning and twist factor ten folds.
In the opening frame we can see The Kims desperately parasite-ing on their neighbors for WIFI connection who live at a higher floor while our family in focus living in the basement, symbolically defining their class status. Up next, in the very sequence we can see the father asking their children to leave the window open so they can get free extermination of insects upon which the family seems extremely uncomfortable while breathing through that fog of spray but the father sits still focusing on his work, letting us know he got used to those circumstances which is later revealed to insignificantly telling he has done so many odd jobs over the years and will go to any extent if something profits him.
Then we see how The Kims hit The Parks with every stone possible(not literally) by converting even most unlikely events also into their favor by reading between the lines, using their employer's gullible nature and even messing up with their psychology by creating a fake demand and identities even if it was meant to go to an extent that may end up making someone else's life a mess. We can see at a later point that Mr. Kim says he hopes that the previous driver might have found a better job but when their cover is blown up, he does everything possible to not loose the opportunity he has got which skillfully showcases human's hypocrite behaviors.
But the real deal of the film is set within the theme of crossing the lines, the barriers set by the economical status diving the rich and the poor and it is the only thing both the sides care about, the poor - trying to cross it, the rich - trying to maintain their eminence by holding the others to not do it. We can see that clearly from all the actions of The Kims that try to sneak in their owns in different way for a better lifestyle and the in the way Mr.Park reacts when he finds out his then driver might have crossed the drivers seat and had sex with someone on his seat or in the way he tells how Mr.Kim smells. There's a big emphasize of these barriers, the lines, that even at most of the places there's a visual storytelling as the characters based on their status are seemingly divided by lines such as mirror windows and other means.
It also showcases how a similar incident as simple as an overnight rain in the lives of two families at the two ends of a spectrum can mean entirely different to them while one family feels it to be a bliss as the rain hardly effects their life, in fact it makes their garden look more lively as they tend to live in a upscale villas on an inclined locality, for the other, who tend to live in a semi basement house it's just a nightmare as they are completely drenched in the dirty water that comes from all possible sources soaking their entire household with it and making their life much more miserable. And overnight when escaping from the house of the Parks, the Kims literally had to go downhill then take steps and go lower and lower to reach down to the tunnel, walk across a subway that Parks have not used in a long time was such a great portrayal of their class difference.
And my most favorite sequence of the film, in fact the one I think is the most perfect scene in the cinematic history happens to be, the belt of faith. It's just perfectly cinematic, everything within that sequence adds so much meaning and depth to the film. The framing, the soundtrack, the acting, the editing, the thrills, the tension and the coordination between all these things amplifies the film ten folds, if I were to be a filmmaker, that's a kind of shot I would love to end my film with. The belt of faith soundtrack itself is so iconic that I listen to it on loops many a times in a day.
The way he concludes the film is just perfect, the script happens to take everything it introduced until then into account and use them give it the most quintessential pay off. The way in which dynamics change within seconds with a drastic change in the tone was expertly handled. And then the basement, the morse code, a real plan, for a guy who believes in no plan, which may or may not work were put to the best use. It moreover showcases how so much of greed brings only sorrow in the end, because what all that they did till then became meaningless all of a sudden.
There were a lot of cinematic screenwriting techniques used in the film that baffled me, of all one I truly loved was the Rock given by Min to The Kims, at the initial it just seemed like a nice gesture but it played an important role in the film as it proceeded making it a classic example of chekhov's gun. Just like the mirrored opening and closing shots in the film, the rock symbolized the new beginnings in the life of Kims that also happened to the end of that new life.
Technically the film is super strong. The cinematography is achieved with great framing that not only captures both the rich and slum locality perfectly but also does a masterfully visual storytelling with respect to it's theme. The Soundtrack, as I said is one of the biggest assets of the film that amplifies every sequence with it's infinite energy that sits so right with the theme of the film. The architecture in the film, precisely the house of the Parks, to leastly say is aesthetic that truly represents as if it's a work of an auteur and hence sets right with their economic stature.
3112. Yorum: PUTA QUE PARIU BONG JOON-HO QUE FILME É ESSE
To sem palavras, que perfeição
3113. Yorum: I love rewatching this with people who've never seen it before. There's always that moment where they're first descending into the basement, and there's that palpable feeling of "what the fuck kind of movie are we in right now." This had the feeling of being an instant classic when it came out, and three years later that has held strong. Whenever the seemingly hopeless state of modern moviemaking threatens to overwhelm you, it's important to remember that movies like this can still happen.
3114. Yorum: Ngl that party scene reminded me of that one video where that one guy just goes around slapping people.
3115. Yorum: Flusso che scuote lo spettatore in un andirivieni di suspense e soprattutto colpi di scena, azzeccati nel corso d'assestamento diegetico senza superare il limite della banalità o dell'esagerazione, di fatto la linea rimane indisturbata. Il tema centrale è di meritevole risonanza e nonostante nella scena coreana non rappresenti una novità determinante, di per sé è e rimarrà un film considerevole e mastodontico per lo sconvolgimento a cui portò la critica e il mondo del cinema stesso. Con Parasite la notorietà del cinema sud coreano si afferma completamente cambiando le sorti del cinema non solo in Europea ma anche e di gran lunga in America, spingendo sull’adottamento di nuovi stili, scenografie e ri-scritturazioni di trame; basti pensare a Squid Game che sicuramente segue l'onda di celebrità dopo questo interessante lavoro, ovviamente con un concetto dozzinale, si diverso ma in difetto di autenticità.
Tornando a Parasite, come pellicola centra perfettamente il punto meritandosi lodi e speculazioni a riguardo; l'opera scinde si dal convenzionale ma effettivamente può definirsi capolavoro incontestabile? A mio avviso no. Le componenti che più possono portare a tale pensiero condiviso dalla maggioranza a dalla critica sono senz'altro i colpi di scena(e non solo), ben fatti senza ombra di dubbio. La sensazione è quella di aver carpito l'intera situazione arrivando persino a fantasticare sullo svolgimento sequenziale, ma appunto le previe teorie vengono sconvolte. Forse l'alto grado di risonanza dipese dalla non adeguata conoscenza del cinema coreano e dal non essere abituati alla violenza e geniale capovolgimento contestuale e diegetico di cui sono capaci i suoi registi. L'aria di novità nel 2019, ecco a cosa fece pensare; anche la sua candidatura agli Oscar e ad altri consistenti premi, con conseguenti vittorie, passò per un evento unico, direi singolare. Nonostante ciò rimane un ottimo film.
Andrebbe ampiamente analizzato sequenza per sequenza.
Procediamo per gradi:
Per quanto concerne la trama è sia avvincente che spassosa nella sua intrisa capacità di far riflettere su due realtà sociali paradossalmente diverse. Dico paradossale proprio per il finale e la seconda parte disseminata da dettagli che mettono in luce quanto la divisione delle classi sia futile e quasi auto-irrisoria. Entrambe si mettono a nudo: una mostrando i veri problemi riguardanti l'uomo in quanto essere non protetto, lasciato ai margini(anche se ammaliato da un mondo comune e fittizio), e dall'altra gli sciocchi problemi e paure che forgiano la ricchezza, che si culla nell'agiatezza senza conoscere con mano ferma cosa significa la preoccupazione di chi non vede certezza nel domani.
Il diramarsi della trama e la mera ascesa sociale sono congruenti e si accompagnano vicendevolmente. Dapprima l'aspirazione sociale a far parte di un ambiente così alto locato e poi man mano che si procede arriva la sorda presa di coscienza di quanto non sia calzante vivere nell'agio, spogliando tutta la ricchezza dei soldi come fonte di stabilità e felicità, in lontananza dall'umano, dalla comprensione e dall'empatia. I ricchi vivono in una bolla lontana dal mondo circostante, senza mai intrattenere rapporti. La casa è il fulcro e la linfa vitale della famiglia con la sua friabile ed (in)stabile struttura, prossima allo sconvolgimento.
Adagio il marcio viene portato alla luce che ironicamente non sta nella famiglia Park ma al contrario proprio all'interno della casa, nei sotterranei. Ciò sottolinea ancora una volta quanto l'alta borghesia qui descritta sia ignara delle vicissitudini drammatiche che la gente comune deve fronteggiare, trasformandosi in negletti premurosi.
Una metafora de "i soldi non fanno la felicità"? O forse una sottilissima riconsiderazione della società in quanto tale messa su un palco con tutte le sue illusorie opportunità e la infermità nel fare promesse, offrendo una visione solipsista della stessa oltremodo cruda.
L’imborghesimento del proletariato alle massime ed estreme possibilità. 
Molteplici sono le chiavi di lettura.
La tecnica cinematografica è sbalorditiva se si prendono in considerazione le inquadrature, la fotografia e la strutturazione minuziosamente dettagliata. I due ambienti che si contrappongono non solo per la mancanza e l'eccesso di denaro, ma anche per il buio caotico della catapecchia della famiglia povera e la lucentezza che disorienta nell'enorme casa Park. Anche se quest'ultima si erge nella più alta magnificenza vediamo che le fondamenta sono eguali a Ki-woo, con la sua famiglia degradata. Quindi altra considerazione: potrebbe voler descrivere come in fin dei conti il benessere dei borghesi dipenda e sia esclusivamente a carico della classe così detta "operaia", in termini esemplificativi. Molto interessante è la contrapposizione fotografica tra gli uni e gli altri la quale ci regala un'esperienza visiva appagante, piena e rappresentativa.
Il limite tra le due famiglie, e quindi la diga di separazione, è un altro tema cardine che rimbomba durante lo sgretolarsi della storia.
Il capofamiglia Park rimarca senza batter ciglio le sostanziali differenze di posizione che devono essere perpetrate affinché tutto proceda con ordine; l'ordine e la discrezione plasmano la ricchezza, tutto ciò che mina alla sua caduta, come il mescolarsi con il marasma dei dipendenti, è fatale per la stessa. Ogni mansione deve svolgersi secondo la cosi detta suddivisione naturalmente artificiale istituita dagli abbienti, i soli che possono permettersi di provare emozione o altro che concerne l'umano in quanto tale.
La telecamera segue le vicende ponendo l'accento proprio su questa scissione. Lo spazio corporale di una famiglia non eccede e non invade quello dell'altra: sono perfettamente distanti fisicamente ed ideologicamente. Non si sovrappongono mai, fino al momento clou del film dove il caos dilagante ci fa vedere la massa di persone sconvolte proprio come persone eguali e non come ricchi e poveri, anche se poi i ruoli vengono riaffermati in un nanosecondo.
Oltre alla precisa linea di margine che viene creata non solo concettualmente ma anche tecnicamente, vi è un dettaglio palese e non da poco che segna la brutalità e la meschinità ingenua dei Park.
La ri-marcazione continua dell'odore di Kim Ki-taek e del resto dei suoi cari. Ancora una volta ci viene fatta notare l'eterna e incolmabile voragine tra una e l'altra classe: quella che profuma e quella che puzza, grettamente detto. Il padre di famiglia lo farà notare in innumerevoli momenti proprio perché l'odore quasi insopportabile dell'autista penetra nella sue narici andando a mescolarsi con la sua purezza e così scontrandosi con la barriera protettiva. La volgarità e le modalità di dialogo sul dato dettaglio fanno rimanere perplessi tra il riso e il divenire riflessivi. Il profumo sgradevole di una persona marca le sue origini, la distingue, sottometendola mentre l'altro si eleva per una artificiosa prerogativa. L'odore rende diversi. E questa è proprio la goccia che farà traboccare il vaso.
La convinzione di tali affermazioni rende ancora più lapalissiano come tutto il costrutto sociale di divisione sia ottuso e penoso; come se in fin dei conti non fossimo tutto umani... come se ci fosse una netta e precisa linea di giudizio tra il migliore e il peggiore, quando in verità facciamo tutti parte della stessa rovinosa miseria, che sia ideologica, culturale, religiosa ecc..
Un particolare così forte che parla da sé, senza bisogno di ulteriori approfondimenti.
Il pubblico ha riscontrato anche un altro interessante oggetto di considerazione, ovvero la pietra che viene regalata a Ki-Woo, la quale pian piano si carica di metafore, come viene detto dal protagonista. La metafora all'interno di un'altra che sarebbe la pellicola stessa.
Ki-Woo non capisce l'utilità della pietra e da ricerche so per certo che fa parte della tradizione asiatica di collezionare massi dal bell'aspetto, come ornamento o quant'altro. Nel contesto è da un lato una decorazione la cui utilità è solo inventata ed alimentata dalle ipotesi, e dall'altro ha una carica simbolica per il percorso del giovane ragazzo. La pietra lo accompagna prima sporadicamente e poi diviene proprio centrale nella risoluzione del problema. Anche la famiglia non riuscendo a venir a capo di questo enigma, la consacra in maniere differenti, attribuendole specifiche qualità. A mio avviso essa rappresenta la responsabilità che il ragazzo sente di aver verso la sua famiglia; dopo che gli è stata regalata come portafortuna di ricchezza, automaticamente trova lavoro per una vicissitudine ovvia, e quindi diverrà il peso che ha per l'ascesa familiare e per il benessere di ognuno. Si prende in carica il destino dei singoli membri, iniziando per primo il lavoro, e poi sarà colui che con una leggera deviazione di piano , cercherà di salvare tutti dal guaio. La pietra gli si riversa contro e sarà il punto di svolta. Talvolta sembra avere caratteristiche che surclassano la fisica, come quando galleggia nella casa allagata, ed in altri momenti ricomincia ad essere una semplice pietra che molto probabilmente non serve a nulla. Magari rappresenta la speranza della famiglia che invece di contare su di sé, preferisce proiettare la propria fortuna su un qualcosa di magico che smuove e colpisce l'animo umano al centro della sua natura superstiziosa.
La realtà affidata ad un oggetto che in fin dei conti non li aiuta, anzi.
Tutto è curato con un'ottima ambientazione; stuzzica il cervello, soprattutto perché il cinema coreano è uno dei più intriganti, maniacalmente studiato. Una lezione di cinema degna di nota su cui il dibattito rimane ancora ampiamente aperto e su ci sarebbe da dire molto; bensì è una creatura che si fa le veci da sola, proclamandosi come propria spiegazione, basta solo osservarla attentamente.

( Added to :Once in a lifetime + Dream alike + Comfort movies )
3116. Yorum: No long review today
Showed this to one of my friends, she loved it. Her favorite movie of all time.






Thank god
3117. Yorum: Some months ago, I wrote in my review for Bong Joon-Ho's masterpiece Memories of Murder (as well as in my original review for this film) that I felt that there was something that I was missing in Parasite after my first viewing back when it was released in theaters, and that this was something that I had experienced with other critically-acclaimed South Korean films in the past. I recognized, of course, that this was a tremendously well-made film by a tremendously talented filmmaker, but highest-rated film on Letterboxd (at the time)? First foreign-language Best Picture winner (to be)? I just wasn't sure that I got the hype.
I'm glad to report that I got a lot more out of this film upon revisit than I had the first time around. Perhaps it's because I knew the batshit-crazy twists and turns that were coming, or maybe it's because I'm simply a more active film-watcher now than I was two years ago (if I do say so myself), but whatever the reason, I found myself much more able to focus on the more subtle symbolism present throughout the film, which really helped to enrich the experience. This is a film that I could see myself revisiting for years to come and finding something new to take away from it each and every time.
3118. Yorum: peach
3119. Yorum: I hope Hollywood NEVER remakes this.
3120. Yorum: 
3121. Yorum: Nu de storm is gaan liggen.
Saw it, loved it, approved the hype.
Punten naar alles maar persoonlijk voor mij naar het script want dit hadden drie aparte middelmatige films kunnen zijn.
En waarom hebben ze de rest van deze man zijn oeuvre nog steeds niet deftig uitgebracht?
Ik heb een Franse collectors edition van Memories of Murder.
Ik leer nog rapper Koreaans dan Frans.
3122. Yorum: You know a movie is magical when it makes you still want to pull your hair out on a third or fourth watch.
3123. Yorum: pair of sight
3124. Yorum: My mom's reaction to the film: “It’s horrible and makes no sense.”
So who wants to adopt me?
3125. Yorum: This that good good shit. 🍑🎂
ohthatfilmblog.com/2020/02/10/parasite-2019/
3126. Yorum: This film blew my socks off and I have nothing to say that hasn't already been said by far smarter people than me.
All I will say is that if this doesn't win Best Picture, there will be carnage.
3127. Yorum: Geography Classes
A lot has been made of the social commentary, the message, of “Parasite,” but I think the picture is effective because the message is not overly blunt and because the structure--largely geographical--supporting it is congruent. Plus, it’s unpredictable genre-mixing entertainment otherwise. That’s not to say the social commentary isn’t obvious, though, and rather nihilistic. There’s ambiguity and complications as to which characters are the “parasites.” While one suspects that our sympathies are supposed to be with the lower-class Kim family, they are the ones conning the upper-class Parks. In one sequence, to deter detection, they even hide, crawl and slither about like the insects that infest their own home. But, then, the Parks often come across as a vacuous family of privilege who tend to hold their employees in contempt. In effect, they’re all parasites--even the former workers that the Kims replace by tricking the Parks into firing them. Every major character tries to exploit or debase others in some way or another. The Kims get others fired, forge their own qualifications and take advantage of the Parks’ trust. Conversely, the Park parents mock the smell of Kim Ki-taek, and they pretend to be slumming it for sex roleplay. Their daughter is more interested in her tutor as a boyfriend instead of as hired help, and even the young son misinterprets a cry for help in Morse code and is a fan for the cultural appropriation of Native Americans.
The only other Bong Joon-ho movie that I’ve seen thus far, “Snowpiercer” (2013) is more heavy-handed in its depiction of class. In it, the rich exploit the poor; it’s as straightforward as the continuously-running train. “Parasite” is more steeply layered. The upstairs-downstairs class stratification is reflected in Seoul’s geography. The Kims live in a semi-basement in a crowded urban area. We only ever see them arrive home by descending stairs, whereas they ascend them to work for the Parks in their luxurious suburban estate with a backyard. While it rains at the Park’s home, that of the Kims is also flooded by sewage, including feces raining on them from the toilet. A drunk urinates outside their window and even tries to literally piss on them at one point. Others of poverty turn out to inhabit spaces even lower--in a hidden bomb shelter below another flight of stairs. This further references the larger line of demarcation separating North and South Korea, which itself mirrors Mr. Park's condemnation of "crossing the line." Even the hope of upward mobility is represented in the landscape--by a stone.
Besides reflecting the message, all of this geography also serves the narrative. What begins as a black comedy and con-artist film, with actors playing actors, turns into a mix of suspense thriller and old-dark-house horror beginning with one stormy night. Characteristic of the haunted-house subgenre, there’s already the aforementioned secret bunker, and there’s also a ghostly, mysterious assailant (and the figure of the youngest Park’s supposed trauma reflected in his artwork). There’s even fantasy in the Kims’ son’s dream of upward mobility and a grand guignol finale. It’s also a well-composed picture, with an exciting score and amusing performances. And, to top off this multi-layered message movie, there’s the Morse-code messaging. Messages inside a message… genres upon genres, actors within actors, characters within characters, haves among the have-nots--all underlined geographically.
3128. Yorum: Bongkers.
I liked this a lot. My favorite yet from Bong. If nothing else, this has gotta be one of the most compelling films of the year. There's not a single wasted moment.
Equally funny and tense, yet totally unlike anything else I've seen. This one is a must-watch.
3129. Yorum: Gattdamn. The fuck is this doing at SEED #1 on Letterboxd's Top 250 movies???
Y'all trippin if you think this better than "Come and See" "Seven Samurai" or "The Good, The Bad, and the Ugly."
Movie gets a 4 /5 at best.
Calm your tits and go back to listening to grunge.
Fuck school
Society and it's systems
3130. Yorum: 2019 movie viewings, #117. I know it sounds a bit racist at first to say that no one does horror quite like the South Koreans; but I mean that less as a statement about South Koreans themselves and more a cultural reflection of the current state of the South Korean film industry, which for some reason has embraced the idea of horror as a harbinger of social change way more than most other nations' film industries (especially the US, which despite its recent run of indie hits is still mostly defined by the franchise-friendly '80s paradigm of "Holy Fuck, It's Gonna Kill Us All!"). Bong Joon Ho is a great example of what I'm talking about, a director who has always inserted at least a dollop of political commentary into his genre flicks, most recently in his otherwise cartoonish "the rich fight the poor in a luxury supertrain" actioner Snowpiercer. But in his newest, the universally praised Parasite (which last week officially became the highest rated film in the history of Letterboxd), Bong both ups the ante of his political activism, and dials down his message into a subtle and complex milieu that defies easy explanation, easily the main reason that this film seems to be resonating with such a larger part of the general population than psychological horror movies usually do.
As is typical with these kinds of films, you're best off knowing as little as possible about the surprise-filled plot before you see it yourself; but in general act-one terms, it's safe to say that it's about a family in Seoul who are as poor as poor even gets, who come to believe that they've hit the lottery when they manage to gently con a one-percenter family into hiring each one of them for jobs they're barely qualified to perform, until all hell eventually breaks loose. But unlike most indie social-realist films on the subject, Parasite doesn't hit you over the head with a simplistic leftist platitude like "Poor People Noble! Rich People Terrible!"; as Bong expertly shows, not only is there a mix of good and evil in both families, but the class warfare isn't just limited to them alone either, with there being plenty of poor-on-poor and rich-on-rich violence mixed into this often unexpected and always brilliant script. That's what allows this movie to be both more complex and more fascinating than the usual "Occupy [Fill In The Blank]" story, which Bong gets away with precisely because of this being a genre film instead of a "literary" one, a movie which much like his peer Yeon Sang-ho's recent Train to Busan manages to pack in a lot of sneaky social commentary when it's not busy filling the screen with blood and gore and more blood and more gore.
But don't take my word for it: Parasite won this year's Palme d'Or at Cannes, the first time in the festival's history that the prize has been won by a Korean film; it's considered a shoo-in for next year's Best Foreign Language Feature Oscar; and it now holds the record for highest per-venue box office of any foreign language film in American history, astounding to begin with but nearly unbelievable for a hard-R splatter flick. That says a lot about how complex and hard-to-classify this movie is, a moment in history for the South Korean horror industry to step out of the murky fanboy shadows and proudly take a seat at the mainstream grown-ups table, even if just for a moment. Like everyone else on the planet, I give it a strong recommendation to one and all, a film you'll want to see in an actual theatre on a Saturday night with an enthusiastic audience, so get to it now before it heads to home video.
3131. Yorum: Parasite is definitely worthy of all the praise it's getting, it's simply a complete movie, perfect in almost every aspect. It takes you to an intense emotional ride that perpasses several different genres and tones with a masterful domain of the cinematic form by director Bong Joon-Ho. It's hard for a film taking so many tonal shifts to really work like this, it's a risk that is usually the downfall of many promising productions, yet in here it works perfectly and that's specially why it hits so hard. The director's previous work, 'Okja', for exemple, also takes risks and it really left something to be desired and divided opinions.
One of the best things about it, I think, is the fact that I could honestly recommend it to anyone, even though I can't even try to describe it to someone. One may think, due to the picture's academic praise and the general public's misconceptions about foreign cinema, that this is some slow, artsy film for snobby cinephiles, but it's quite the contrary, it's entertaining, engaging and acessible from start to finish. I hope this helps to popularize asian cinema a little more among western general audiences.
I must confess that watching it so late from it's release made me absorb all of the hype surrounding it, and I can't help but imagine that I would've enjoyed even more if it wasn't for the absurd expectations that I had placed on it. to be fair, I do believe this is the movie of the year, but it doesn't really feel right somehow, since I was already expecting it to be that.
Also the fact that I almost never watch anything twice and I'm dying to watch this 2h30m film again says a lot about it.
3132. Yorum: I don’t typically like to get super personal with what I write here on Letterboxd but I think I should start off this review with a little something. I’ve been employed by Regal Cinemas as a bartender for the better part of two years and as of this week that time has officially come to an end. Working at Regal is the reason I even found out about Letterboxd in the first place, it was a job where I got to talk about movies all day and make friends with other movie buffs and without it I wouldn’t be here writing this review. It was also, incidentally, a job that offered me some free movie tickets. Parasite marks the 65th and final free movie I got to see as a Regal employee and I felt that fact deserved noting.
Parasite, though, is an admittedly challenging film. It’s an unpredictable, difficult to describe drama from Korean auteur Bong Joon-ho that evades conventional categorization. It’s also, incidentally, a movie I’m still sitting on. I’m not prepared to give this one a proper review just yet, I’m still kind of processing and making up my mind about things but suffice it to say I think this is a strong film with some interesting commentary on class as well as being an incredibly tense and well put-together drama. Anything more will have to be saved for a rewatch.
3133. Yorum: 
3134. Yorum: this movie has a scene identical to the ending of jackass 3d dir. jeff tremaine
3135. Yorum: So maybe you guys remember that I saw Parasite a few months ago on a screener. I was very warm to the film, giving it an initial 4/5 star rating saying it was a great film with an excellent screenplay. Yet, my lackluster review did not give Parasite the credit it deserved. I also wrote in that review that I would see the movie again on the big screen because it felt like a movie that demanded to be seen on a big screen in a darkened theatre. Oh boy was I right on that one as well- Parasite just absolutely transfixes its audience when its played in a theatre. I haven't been this memorized by a film since maybe seeing Roma in theaters.
Parasite is a perfect movie. I've been thinking about this a lot- but i can't think of any issues I have with it. I mean, for goodness sake look at where it is at on the Letterboxd Top 250. It's number 2 of all time!! That's nuts- yet I feel like it is very well deserved.
This is one of the most original films I've seen. It's really hard to compare to other films because of the directions it goes. It's the perfect example on how to engage an audience and play them like a violin. I'd put this film up there with Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho (and if you know me you know that is a huge compliment.) Parasite is able to have the first half be a completely different film, and then it has its own shower scene like in Psycho that changes the context to the rest of the film in a really bold way. This film is so incredibly unpredictable and yet all the beats I was anticipating seeing unfold the 2nd time hit even harder this time. Maybe it was because I saw it on the big screen but I also think the story just justifies repeat viewings and they will all hit. That is a filmmaker on the top of his game and Bong Joon-ho deserves all the recognition he will get for this film. It is one of the most perfectly crafted films I've ever seen.
The screenplay is so tight and everything pays off in such a satisfying way. Even though this film feels like two completely different movies its still abler to tie in everything together in a way that feels palpable. It's absolutely breathtaking and one film professors will be showing to classes for years.
The way Joon-ho uses space in this movie is enthralling as well. A lot of this movie takes place in a single house yet it feels so vast and large because of how small our protagonists and their worldview are. With music, cinematography and spectacular editing this movie is able to transform into a wholly complete experiences of the senses. It feels like you are there experiencing this with the characters. There will be several scenes where you won't be able to breathe because of how well the tension is executed. It's quite frankly a masterpiece.
If the Academy snubs this movie for a nomination, then they obviously have a bias against Korean films. This is easily one of, if not "the", best film of the year. It's one of the most engaging and engrossing film going experiences I've had in a very long time and one I think will be remembered in the film medium for years and years to come. I cannot stress how good this movie is- 2019 is becoming one of my favorite years for movie releases.
3136. Yorum: madness luv
3137. Yorum: I forgot something in the basement under the kitchen. 
Just hand best picture over now imo.
3138. Yorum: yes i watched it again cause im a crackhead and i need to show it to everyone best movie of the millennium baby come along and take a hit from the bong
3139. Yorum: A movie that is easily one of the best films of the year that should be seen if possible! HOT DAMN, that ending played me for a fool.
3140. Yorum: It’s the best Korean film I have ever watch it’s very funny,mystery and have a very great performance of cast in the movie. Probably it is the best film of the year.
3141. Yorum: 👨‍👩‍👧‍👦🏠
Não tava preparado pra isso não hein... 
 
 Que controle absurdo que o filme tem entre essa tonalidade um pouco comédia surreal inserida nessa ambientação dramática, ambientação esta, que percorre o longa até o final, mantendo o mesmo desempenho, sem ao menos se perder por um instante nessa unidade.
3142. Yorum: everyone say thank you bong joon-ho
3143. Yorum: This is probably the best second half of a film I have seen this year, in fact I am struggling because let’s be honest the first act of Endgame was not the best but neither was this first but they most saved there movie by having some of the best 2nd and 3rd acts this year but for 2 completely different reasons. While Endgame’s 2nd act was throwbacks and the 3rd act was fanservice galore. Parasite that lost its shit and went completely bonkers half way through the film, it was fantastic I would go so far to say the second half of this film is masterful.
The acting was amazing especially from the caretaker, she actually blew my mind. Everyone else was amazing and I literally have no complaints. The script is beautifully written and the story is even smarter and fits the script.
The things from a technical aspect are even better about half way through the film there is this absolutely incredible one-take down a winding path and that shot alone already one best cinematography, but this is legit some of the best cinematography since Pan’s Labryinth. The score is surprisingly amazing. To be honest I can not think of any flaws from a technical perspective, perhaps the pacing during the first act could be a tiny bit better but it did not affect my enjoyment.
In conclusion, GO WATCH THIS IMMEDIATELY if you get he chance. It is incredibly written very fun and outlandishly smart.
9.4/10
3144. Yorum: I've struggled to figure out how to talk about this movie for 5 days for two reasons.
1. It was the most rewarding thing that I came into this movie only knowing three things: it's a Bong Joon-ho movie and it won this year's Palme d'Or (both these being elements enough to make it among my most anticipated movies of the year) and Song Kang-ho stars in it. Beyond that, I think going in blind is the best experience possible for a movie reliant on the surprises it has inside of it so I want to keep things vague and spoiler-free (so if anybody wants to walk away from this letterboxd post regardless until they see the movie, by all means).
2. It is... not unique. It's pretty clearly holding in it the DNA for all other Bong Joon-ho pictures, but there's nevertheless something extremely disarming about the severity of the material it knowingly handles and the tipsy juggling of that very material into something that recognizes the Hitchcockian balance between gutbusting humor and edge of your seat thrills.
In any case, the few things I will share before shutting my mouth some more until the film releases stateside:
- It is a set design miracle, specifically the central mansion in a showy way that isolates the setting uses surfaces to separate characters and establish their power dynamics in a visual sense.
- There is a sequence right in the 2/3 mark that is a miracle of cross-cutting that really fucked me up.
I will say the rest of this when the movie comes out.
3145. Yorum: Well fuck I guess I'm in the #bonghive now.
Drinkin' that ~Bong Water~ if you will.
Because this is one of those impeccably crafted works of art that I wish we saw more often in cinema. One of those films that goes on its own journey and dares you to follow it down its dark endless corridors. And Bong Joon-ho creates an atmosphere so unique and genre-defying that you're constantly on edge because you just know that if you let your guard down he's gonna hit you over the head with a big twist. Or introduce a new element you weren't expecting.
And while it could be comfortably classified in any genre, I'll just say that there's one brief shot in this that was so understated (devoid of music cue and everything) but so fucking chilling it made my blood run cold.
Cinema is alive and well folks, and it belongs to Bong Joon-ho.

(special thank you to D.A., you da best 🖤)
3146. Yorum: 
3147. Yorum: speechless il va me falloir un peu de temps pour process 0 vanne
3148. Yorum: idk what is to say about this film, its all been told and documented.
its a phenomonal film about being rich and poor.
do i fully understand the meaning behind everything?
no.
do i know what it tries to convey?
yes.
its brilliant that even as our set of main character grow more and more into worse people, you still realize that they don't have allot of options but they also don't have to go about it in this way.
the rich family is sympathetic because the poor family like PARASITES attach them to this rich family and their money but then you think....does this rich family care about people like our main characters?
i love bong joon ho and his films.
im so excited for mickey 17.
3149. Yorum: ce film est juste fou parce que bon sang de bonsoir qu'est ce que je viens d'expérimenter cinématographiquement parlant là?
c'est vraiment ATROCEment magique car purée je ne sais pas qui est le génie qui a eu cette idée de trame mais c'est complètement réussi (détails, enchaînements dans les dialogues, les multiples péripéties, les retournements de situation, la structure de certains plans, l'organisation en elle même du film, la morale et les messages cachés sous forme de critique de la société / des classes sociales, ...)
ne prenez pas à cœur l'expression "tout est bien qui finit bien" lors du visionnage
3150. Yorum: Does anyone else put off watching critically acclaimed films because they're scared they won't live up to expectations? Well Parasite managed to exceed all the worthy hype and more. I somehow went into this five-year-old movie spoiler-free which made for a great watch, the second half of the film is so stressful. Bong Joon-ho's direction is amazing and the films cinematography is gorgeous. The entire cast is phenomenal but I really enjoyed Song Kang-ho and Cho Yeo-jeong's performances. The theme of class division is nicely mixed with dark comedy and surprising twists. Parasite is the peak of 2010s cinema and will continue to be one of the most influential foreign movies.
3151. Yorum: Um bglh criativo bom pa meter um neném de uma forma diferenciada dando mortal carpada
O roteiro é bom pa krlh
A Muié rica é panguona pa KRLH
Nada surpreendente, mas é diferente
A dublagem smp fica esquisita tmmc filme asiático é smp assim
3152. Yorum: fuck big houses.
my girl jessica did not deserve that.
3153. Yorum: I’d kill someone too if they say I stink
3154. Yorum: one of the funnest things on Earth is watching this with friends who’ve never seen it before and just enjoying their reactions to where it goes as much as the actual movie
3155. Yorum: i know some people that started to watch this, then quit halfway through. let’s have a prayer for them tonight 🙏 🥺
3156. Yorum: not at all what i was expecting it to be but it was so good
3157. Yorum: 2019 was such a peak year for movies, but i can understand why it won best picture among other incredible movies
96/100
3158. Yorum: A truly perfect movie. Those last few minutes hit so hard and are brilliant. So happy this exists and continues to delight on every rewatch
3159. Yorum: 
3160. Yorum: 🏆95
“You can’t go wrong with no plans.”
What a film! The amount of plot twists were insane. The first part of the film is so great with its buildup and then the second part all hell breaks loose. I looked and my friend and said “there’s 30 minutes left, what else could happen” well let’s just say 💩 happened. The ending I also think is perfect and this film is near perfect and totally deserves its praise. Must watch!
3161. Yorum: It's so metaphorical
3162. Yorum: Uma diferença de classes sociais é imediatamente exposta pelo roteiro, que primeiro ressalta um lado não muito conhecido ou mesmo escondido da Coreia do Sul — a pobreza, a periferia das enormes cidades — e depois usa dessa informação para criar um drama que, embora seja político e crítico, não pontifica sobre esse abismo social. Afinal, quem, nos arranjos de nossa sociedade, é o parasita de quem? Me faltam palavras pra expressar a magnitude desse trabalho, Bong Joon-ho é extremamente talentoso e entrega direção e roteiro no comando totalitário de seu ofício. Apoteótico!
3163. Yorum: a cena do fantasma coisa diabólica do satanás banida em mais de 50 países
3164. Yorum: Just weeks before the world shut down in 2020, the school I was teaching at had an on-campus showing of Parasite. I had two courses at that time, one a regular composition class and the other being an intro to creative writing. I told both groups of students that I’d give extra credit to anyone who’d come to the screening. Quite a few of my creative writing students showed up as most of that class was one big friend group and all terminally online and already aware of the movie. From comp, I had a number of minimal effort frat guys, many of them confessing that this was their first foreign film. The two groups could not be more different.
Shortly thereafter I never saw either group in person again as the university moved everything online. But that night everyone was on the same page, laughing and gasping at all the right spots. Afterwards they excitedly talked to each other about what they had seen. It would have been a perfect moment to end on if I had never taught again.
Regardless of my opinion on the film itself, I still take so much joy from big collective celebration of movies, from Black Panther to EEAAO. Parasite is special for many reasons, being impeccably acted and crafted, but what I love most is how it opened the door for so many to realize how deep the ocean of movies actually is, far beyond the kiddie pool of what they’re used to. I’ll never know it but I like to hope that at least one frat guy started swimming out to sea after that.
3165. Yorum: song kang-ho practicing acting is the funniest (and weirdest) thing i’ve ever seen
3166. Yorum: This was a very entertaining watch that’s for sure!! Husband and I have been meaning to watch this movie for a while now and finally got to watch it. I’m glad this lived up to the hype!
3167. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next.”
3168. Yorum: I fucking love Bong Joon-Ho. 
Best Picture Winners Ranked
Bong Joon-ho Ranked
3169. Yorum: "What the hell is ram-don?"
A monumental film, even on my third watch I still managed to pick up on small subtleties and details that I had previously missed. I love absolutely every aspect of this film: all of the acting is fantastic, incredibly well shot, an amazingly well written and creative screenplay, great music choices, impressive production design, fantastic pacing and editing. The directing and overall tonal shifts between comedic and dramatic moments in this movie is astounding and is an achievement in itself. The kind of film I could watch a hundred times and never get bored. One of my absolute favorites, a truly special and one of a kind experience - 10/10.
3170. Yorum: je crois que le ballet de la pêche c’est les 5min les + parfaitement rythmées que j’ai vues au cinéma, tellement envoûtant je m’en lasserai jamais
3171. Yorum: Before I start off this review I just wanted to say a few words about why I chose to see it. Seeing this film for the first time in a small theater, months before it came out with my little brother at my side as we were thrilled, tense, laughing, and almost having a heart attack is one of the best experiences I've ever had, I'll never forget that day. What a masterpiece. Since that day, I haven't seen the film, not because I don't want to, but because I am a bit intimidated by it by just how good it is. Sitting down and watching it is a marvelous experience that shall be cherished only so often, and all of the magic and awe-inspiring frames this film has still hit and still amaze just as much. However, today is my 18th birthday, and I must say it is quite a special birthday for me since this is the year that I basically plan ahead and start my journey to be in the cinematic industry. So choosing this film filled with so much perfection, which every second inspires me and drives me to want to inspire others and dedicate my life to it was just the right one.
This film is perfect, no shock there. I love a lot of films, but in regards of not personal taste but what I would consider flawless films, this is one of the best we have ever had. Every single piece fits beautifully, every single dialogue is earned, and it is thrilling from the very start. BJH knows perfectly how to handle this story, fill it with details that drive the film if you look hard enough, and a clear view of why the characters do why they do and how it all fits in towards its message. Its something we should all see at least once in our lives.
It just feels all so well put together, on every level you can think of. It balances so much so beautifully and so powerfully. Of course I won't spoil this film, but as it goes the way it turns, the way it reveals and keeps evolving is mesmerizing. Never have I felt something like that, I was still shaking and staring deeply with absolute attention every second just like before. Its just one of those cases where the hype is insane, and the film still reaches it and surpasses it, ita incredible. (quick note, the criterion edition is beautiful and I would highly recommend it, one of my favorites for sure and the right way to watch this imo)
Everything has been said about this one, but idc I just needed to say a few things after watching it again, its such a special film. Its that rare film that we get between long gaps because of what it does and the perfection it holds at every single minute. I have no idea how to end this review so I'm going to choose the cheap way outta this one, but yeah its just the perfect film to watch to remind why films are so powerful, period.
3172. Yorum: 
3173. Yorum: SKUTSSIACCE (South Koreans up to shady shit in a class-conscious environment) is my new favorite entertainment genre.
And yes, I know I'm shamefully late to the Bong party. Just the fact that I saw Space Jam: A New Legacy before this...
Will you accept my apology if I write it in Korean?
죄송합니다. 정당한 변명거리가 없습니다.  빨리 보지 못한 내가 바보야
*Mikael Stånggren is mysteriously replaced by a pizza box folder named Kim Stang-Jeong*
3174. Yorum: 100 (subbed)
3175. Yorum: An absolute masterpiece. I certainly would not be the first person to talk about how incredible this film is. It's direction, cinematography, editing, writing, and acting are all spectacular. Rather than go into all of this, I want to talk about what I think the titular "Parasite" is.
It could be referring to the Kim family. They are taking advantage of the Park family to get money out of them. It could also be referring to the Park family, that robs the Kim family of their dignity in the process of getting what they want. I think the "Parasite" is something bigger than either family. I think it is the system itself. It's the capitalist society where the wealth divide is so wide that those at the bottom have no real way of escaping, and are essentially forced to leech off of others. The system where the rich exploit the poor, and the poor have little choice otherwise. It's important to note that all of the characters in this film(especially the sympathetic poor family) do bad things. This is because the system forces those that are desperate into situations where they have little choice otherwise. In capitalism, both the poor and the rich are parasites to each other, and the system is what needs to change.
3176. Yorum: What the fuck
3177. Yorum: Bong-Joon Ho spielt hier mit den verschiedensten Genres als wäre es für ihn nur eine Fingerübung. 
Drama, Thriller, Komödie und viele mehr, alles fließt makellos ineinander. 
So kreiert er unter anderem Momente, bei denen einem ein Schauer über den Rücken läuft [die weißen Augen am Treppenaufgang] und in wieder anderen, wo einem einfach das Lachen im Halse stecken bleibt. 
Dieses bitterböse Wechselspiel behält der Film über die komplette Laufzeit bei und verliert trotzdem nie an Zugkraft [was auch zusätzlich an der Brillanten Inszenierung liegt]. Zudem gibt es zwischendrin noch einen Twist, welchen ich überhaupt nicht habe kommen sehen und glücklicherweise verzichtet man auch komplett auf die üblichen Schwarz-Weiß-Kontraste in puncto Charakterzeichnung und arbeitet nur mit Grautönen. 
Lediglich das Ki-Woo (Sohn der Kim’s) am Ende überlebt, fand ich dann aber leider etwas zu Konsequenzlos und unglaubwürdig -immerhin bekam er den schweren „Glücksstein“ zweimal auf seinen Kopf. 
…..
Von allen angesprochenen Themen im Film, fand ich das mit dem Geruch am interessantesten. 
Denn der Geruch hat zwei Bedeutungen, welche sich auch gut auf die Realität übertragen lassen. 
Zum einen ist es eine schöne Metapher und Symbolisiert die Respektlosigkeit der Superreichen vor der Arbeiterklasse, welche für ihr monatliches Geld tatsächlich noch „Schwitzen“ müssen und zum anderen wird offengelegt, dass die Reichen sämtliches Gespür für die wirklich wichtigen Probleme im Leben verloren haben.
3178. Yorum: Best film of the year!
There’s genuinely only one thing to be said:
M A S T E R P I E C E
3179. Yorum: “you know what kind of plan never fails? no plan. no plan at all. you know why? because life cannot be planned”.

can guarantee that scene and quote are gonna stick with me throughout time, so beautiful. 
well bloody hell. i have no idea where to start except holy shit. i love it when movies give you a unique, and completely different watching experience compared to any other, and parasite delivered on this factor one-hundred-percent. the screenplay, the acting, the cinematography had me speechless the whole way through. 
genuinely can’t put into words how amazing this was, all i can say is bong joon ho is a true genius and his love and knowledge of film show throughout it. parasite deserves all the praise, hype and awards it received, if not even more!!
3180. Yorum: i literally was not on earth for the past 2 hours
3181. Yorum: Jessica, only child, Illinois, Chicago. Classmate Kim Jin-mo, he's your cousin
When Yeon-kyo talks about how the rain was so helpful with the polluted day, and how its very nice, i felt so painfully attacked, because i always get so fucking happy when it rains and i want it to last for days, and maybe here there are no houses underground, but there’s people with roofs that they made themselves and that fall easily, or maybe they don't even have roofs, and there you have me all smiley because i get to see water drops on my window. Im without words
From my immediate watchlist
3182. Yorum: Endlich habe ich es auch geschafft. Endlich habe ich „Parasite“ gesehen und bin einfach nur begeistert. Irgendwie habe ich es geschafft nichts über den Film zu erfahren. Am besten sollten man nichts über den Film wissen, denn erst dann entfaltet sich der Film so richtig. Was hier passiert ist einfach nur krank, böse, packend und einfach nur perfide.
Die Geschichte ist hier definitiv das Highlight und auch der Teil warum der Film so gut ist. Wie der Film es schafft diese Familie in diese Richtung zu lenken, ist einfach nur stark. Jeglicher Twist der Geschichte ist ebenfalls top. Man weiß nicht was als nächstes kommt. Jeder könnte hier sterben, überleben oder auffliegen. Doch wie der Film letztlich endet ist einfach nur grandios und krank. Allerdings muss ich gestehen, dass mir eine gewisse Stelle gegen Ende eher weniger gefallen hat, sodass der Film von mir nicht die volle Punktzahl erreicht.
Die Schauspieler machen ihre Arbeit ebenfalls toll und man nimmt ihnen auch wirklich alles ab. Auf viel mehr kann man hier nicht mehr eingehen, ohne zu spoilern. Deshalb schaut euch unbedingt „Parasite“ an. Er hat nicht unverdient den Oscar für den besten Film bekommen. Die Film ist einfach nur grandios.
3183. Yorum: Yeah no shit this still holds up
3184. Yorum: watched this with my family and let me tell you, they were SHOCKED. i will never get tired of watching / recommending this movie and over explaining every little detail to anyone who watches this with me!
3185. Yorum: 
3186. Yorum: There seriously is not a thing wrong with this film. I genuinely tried to see if there was a flaw, and I do not think anything is bad; everything fits and works to fit a cause within the film. It's use of setup and payoff that follow each other back-to-back mixed with one of the most effective uses of midpoints that I have seen in a film really makes this debatably one of the best films of the past decade, and one of the best of all time.
3187. Yorum: This movie is so fucking clever its annoying
3188. Yorum: No better way to start New Year than watching this masterpiece.
3189. Yorum: I had a feeling that closing out 2020 with this was the right idea even though I’ve been wanting to watch it every damn day. Insanely appropriate for this year that I’m happy to be leaving behind. Maybe none too subtle but it speaks volumes that a rainstorm that ruins rich people’s canping trips is also literally destroying the homes of the poor. And attempting to have just one iota of “the good life” puts us broke people in the most dangerous positions we’ve ever imagined, simply for wanting to live comfortably. God, everything is so fucked. Goodbye, 2020. Not a soul will miss you.
3190. Yorum: Going into this I never knew what it was about,  and I think that was the way to go with this film as not only is it a great film, but it completely surprises you at the intensity  it ends up building.  This is superbly acted, hilarious at times and shockingly brutal. 
I won’t describe the plot, as I wouldn’t want to spoil anything.  Go in clean to this well crafted film.
3191. Yorum: best movie ever made me thinks
3192. Yorum: parasite is just a marvel for every cinema fan. it's one of those movies that appear once every 20 or 30 years. it's just so good! the amount of originality is enormous and the level of this writing is just something you don't see every day. everything, literally everything, pays off in the end. there are subtle hints and foreshadowing for even the smallest detail of the movie. it's crafted with such care that you can realize bong's passion for movies and his social awareness in every frame. it's a masterpiece in every sense of the word and (probably) the best movie of the whole century. makes me wanna see it every day.
3193. Yorum: I honestly feel like there's no point discussing or writing anything here for Parasite, because I feel like there's already been countless amounts of people who have reviewed and analysed this film to great lengths. All I have to say is that this film is still almost as great as it was when it started to explode in popularity around this time last year; a major return to form for Bong since his rather lackluster English-language features, and a major turning point for world cinema being recognised by the Oscars and the mainstream. Let's hope it continues to stay that way.
[Bong Joon Ho - Ranked]
3194. Yorum: deserved every second of that eight minute standing ovation wow. this left me speechless
3195. Yorum: If you are one of the people who didn’t watch this movie because “ew, subtitles” then you ain’t no friend of mine.
3196. Yorum: this shit does not get old. 
watched on a first date which i now think is PERFECT. if it goes poorly, at least another person has seen parasite. and you can judge them based on how they feel about this film. do not trust a person who doesn’t like this movie (don’t worry, he did). 
also i just moved into a basement apartment in the middle of wildfire so i kinda felt this more than i expected.
3197. Yorum: My local cinema was playing the Black and White version of Parasite so naturally I jumped at the chance to watch this masterpiece again.
Everything to be said about the actual movie has been said a thousand times before. It's literally one of the greatest films ever made. So I'm just going to briefly talk about specifically the Black and White version:
I loved it. It's far from a gimmick or an excuse to push it back out in theatres: it really felt like it added to my already insanely high appreciation of it. The whole story revolves around a bunch of shady characters and the morally challenged plot they devise to move up the social hierarchy. Every inch of this film was covered in shadow and metephorical shades of grey to begin with. So it's only natural for the black and white to work perfectly with the contents.
I would highly recommend giving the Black and White edition a watch if you get the chance.
3198. Yorum: 
3199. Yorum: Second time around and I thought I’d be more prepared but no I just wish my brain was of a bigger capacity because there was just so much more I noticed and wanted to absorb, this was still so much to take in all at once, but in the way that it’s because it’s so bloody phenomenal. Wow. Just wow.
3200. Yorum: The only real problem I had with this film was the romance between Kevin and Da-Hye, since it didn’t really add anything to the plot. Other than that, I can’t think of any reason not to give this a 5. Amazing screenplay, cinematography, and all that, and best of all, extremely unique. I could say so much more about this masterpiece but everything that’s had to be said has been said.
3201. Yorum: I put off watching Parasite for months because of the sheer amount of hype surrounding it. So how is it months after the hype has died down?...yeah it's good, like really good.
Now I'm upset that I didn't watch it earlier.
3202. Yorum: Everything about this movie is hauntingly beautiful, I genuinely can't name a single fault. I'm just angry I never managed to see it in the cinema.
3203. Yorum: This movie gets better every time you see it! I’ve now seen this 3 times and I notice a new theme or detail every time. I can’t fathom how some people think this won so many awards simply because it’s foreign. I just can’t.
3204. Yorum: the bar is so high right now i need to unwatch this so i can enjoy other movies
3205. Yorum: Oh my...
I can not believe what I have just witnessed...
This...This is awesome!
Yeah, you heard me! PARASITE is a 5 star winner in this reviewer's eyes!
3206. Yorum: My boyfriend said it was the best picture of the year. The Oscar's said it was the best picture of the year...
I didn't believe any of them at all...
Until tonight. Bong Joon Ho has won my ❤ over with this masterpiece & that isn't an easy task! 😍⭐
3207. Yorum: I hyped this up too much for my parents so they were expecting some absolutely perfect film by the time they watched it. Good thing that’s exactly what they got.
3208. Yorum: Watched it with the family and they loved it!
3209. Yorum: “If you make a plan, life never works out that way.”
Motto I’ve lived by my entire life.
3210. Yorum: watched again with my dad same ol serve same ol fucking serve
3211. Yorum: 
3212. Yorum: I SAW IT IN THEATRES! i can die happy now
3213. Yorum: It's so good in every sense, visually, story, acting, just enough reality and fantasy to wonder if this is really where the story is going. I do feel like parts of the story didn't click to me, like I don't need things to be spelled out for me but I wish there were certain parts of the story that were clear. But amazing none the less!! Almost made me cry.
It's kind of crazy to look up a recipe for Ram-Don and a bunch of recipes all mention this movie so it's listed as PARASITE RAM-DON.
3214. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned".
This is one of the best movies I've ever had the pleasure of watching. I was so happy to see it clean up at the Academy Awards - well deserved! Incredible cast performance, great pacing, deep layers, and a profound social commentary.
Every part of this film is pure perfection. It's hard to label it as a particular genre, but it absolutely nails every genre it dips its toes into. I love the black comedy - it works so well to get its message across. We're sitting there laughing when we're struck by how dark it all is - class divide, abject poverty, marginalisation of the poor. This film isn't heavy-handed at all. The subtlety in putting forward its messages is spectacular! It's socially conscious but not preachy. Walks the line very well.
Parasite slowly unsettles you and the uneasiness worms its way inside you until the climax at the end, where Kitaek snapping and stabbing Mr Park is almost a cathartic release of tension. Absolutely insane scene at the end! Pure chaos, but executed so so well!
I think my favourite scene is the one where they're all trying to get the old housekeepers' phone. The slow motion with the upbeat song blaring in the background is peak comedy perfection.
Some very apt symbolism for class divide is spread throughout this film. The idea that a person can smell poor, and how the smell always lingers, is representative of poverty 'not washing off'. The divide between rich and poor is stark - a poor person and a rich person will unfortunately always be different. Another very poignant part is when Yeon Kyo is talking about the rain being a "blessing", because she is sheltered from the devastating effects as a result of her privilege, while the Kim family and numerous other people had their homes destroyed. It really drives home the absolute ignorance of the upper class to real-world problems.
Something I find very interesting about Parasite though is that the Parks aren't monsters. They're not caricatures of rich people - not exaggeratedly evil or despicable. They're pretty nice, normal apart from their riches. This is important because it gives the film a more realistic edge - there are people in this world like the Parks. Rich people who aren't bad, but who are painfully ignorant and naieve to the suffering of the poor. But really, the villain in Parasite isn't the Parks, it's the oppressive system of the class divide which enforces the ignorance of the rich to the poor. This film expresses that perfectly.
It's also interesting to see the development of the Kim family. As they start levelling up with their new well-paying jobs, they become ignorant to the suffering of the poor too. In the scene where they get drunk, Kijung says they should only care about themselves. They immediately attempt to kick out the housekeeper and her husband from the basement without a second thought. It shows how quickly money can go to one's head.
Everyone needs to watch this film. It's absolute movie joy. I loved seeing all the parts of the Kim family's plan come together. It was so much fun connecting the dots while watching - "oh my god she's leaving her underwear in the car so they can get him fired and get their dad in!!", "THEY'RE GOING TO RUB THE PEACH ON HER SO IT LOOKS LIKE SHE HAS TB", and so on. So fresh and exciting! I was fully beaming from ear to ear during the bloody tissue scene - that is movie perfection!! Loved seeing it all come into place, and then it was painful to see it all fall apart again at the end. This film seriously gets you involved and attached!
One word: Perfection.
3215. Yorum: “Dad, today I made a plan.”

Second time around was somehow even better. My first viewing was at the theater and even though I absolutely loved the experience, I was able to watch it more carefully at home this time.
Robert Eggers said in an interview that you don’t get to fully appreciate a great film unless you watch it two or three times. I feel like that’s exactly the case with Parasite. The intricacies down to the smallest details are so well thought out it’s almost unbelievably good. From all the metaphors to the many symbols throughout the film that flow so naturally that it feels as though you know the story and makes you build your own expectations, only to take a complete 180° and go in a complete different direction that manages to be better than whatever you imagined. The pace is something I can’t compliment enough. It all goes by so smoothly that you don’t even notice how immersed you are into the story until later in the film. So fascinating.
Bong Joon-Ho’s vision is so beautiful. He has a very unique way of filmmaking that’s more than impressive and makes the story feel warm and personal even if it’s nothing you can relate to. I’m sure he thinks of absolutely every minor detail in his stories. I’m so glad he’s going down in history as one of the greatest.
3216. Yorum: hey guys hit that like button if you think mr. park is... kinda hot
3217. Yorum: Christians go to church on Sunday, but cinephiles go to early afternoon showings of Best Picture Winner Parasite.
Really, there’s nothing to add that hasn’t been said elsewhere. A ridiculously well crafted, unbelievably crazy, good ass movie. 
P.S. 
Cho Yeo-jeong can step on my throat anytime.
3218. Yorum: Finally brought this film into my home - hopefully it doesn't start to ruin my life.
It seems I picked the best year to host an Oscar party because the moment this won Best Picture (and hell, when Bong won Best Director) was one of the most joyous experiences I could possibly share with some fellow cinephiles. Me, call the Oscars bullshit? No, never! They gave it to Parasite!
3219. Yorum: What a masterpiece of a film. Totally deserves all of the recognition and acolades.
3220. Yorum: Spoilers for Kim Ki-young's THE HOUSEMAID (1960) coming. Fair warning!
First of all, I watched the B&W version of PARASITE, which will most likely be a one-off for me. I don't think it's better in black and white, although most of the film works very well. (The intro to the rich house and the bloodshed at the end are most impacted, in my opinion.) But this viewing (my third) was by far the saddest, so perhaps that is affected by the B&W.
Anyway. Ever since I spoke to Bong at Cannes, he's talked of this film's kinship with THE HOUSEMAID (it was one of three films he recommended watching to get ready for PARASITE). This left me wondering if he'd throw in an epilogue to PARASITE that mirrored that of THE HOUSEMAID, where Song Kang Ho would reveal it was all a dream and talk to the camera and articulate the moral of the film.
This doesn't happen, but one thing that does happen that I'd forgotten until Mike D'Angelo called it out in his MONOS review is that PARASITE ends with Choi Woo-shik facing the camera. (I'd argue the toss - the eyeline is super-close, but it doesn't feel *quite* like barreling the lens when viewed in the cinema - but either way, it's near as dammit.)
Now, generally, I'd agree with Mike's point that this is often a hail mary (cf THE SOUVENIR). But when viewed in conjunction with THE HOUSEMAID, look at it this way. Korean cinema has been encoding messages for its viewers for all this time. And yet, 59 years after THE HOUSEMAID, inequality is worse, the system is more entrenched, and calamity is closer than ever (although only landing on the poor at the bottom, until a moment of class solidarity brings out a paroxysm of unexpected yet inevitable violence, one quickly covered over by the system).
PARASITE ends, I only realised this time, with Choi's character having encoded a logistically cumbersome message of impossible hope that its intended recipient has no way of receiving - while messages can get out of the basement, albeit with ludicrous difficulty to an uncertain audience, they can't get in. (Worth noting that the basement is always linked to North Korea, while the upstairs is linked to the USA - only noticed this time that the Park patriarch made his money in America - something I'm not equipped to fully unpack.)
Filmmaking, too, is quite often a logistically cumbersome way of encoding a message of impossible hope. Bong parodies this frequently in the film: the rock is "so metaphorical", a metaphor so obvious Choi's literally hit over the head with it. It's also pointed out that the Kim's plan continually apes filmmaking technique, from the manufacture of props to the rehearsal of scenes (I voted for ram-don in the Skandies, but "peaches prep" is brilliant, particularly Choi and Song's rehearsal).
A lot of thought has been given to the message of PARASITE: whose side it's on, whether it's "sufficiently revolutionary" (sigh), and so on. To me, the message is ultimately encoded in Choi's final glance at/near the camera: inequality is deeply encoded in society. You know this. A film isn't going to change this. So what do you want me to say? What can I say that will make a difference? If you didn't get the message from THE HOST, and you didn't get the message from SNOWPIERCER, what's left? Getting hit over the head with a metaphor?
3221. Yorum: and that’s on parasite inventing cinema periodt
3222. Yorum: Tense, engrossing, haunting, quiet, human...
...personal, creative. 
And deserving of every Oscar it won, if not perhaps a few more. 
I’m going to be thinking about this one for a long time. 
Wow.
3223. Yorum: this winning best picture was a welcome surprise...not to take anything away from the prestigious company it kept, but this deserved to win. i expected it to merely take best foreign film as a consolation prize. nice face turn by the academy 👍👍.
excited to further explore bong joon-ho's filmography in the very near future...not to metion make my own ram-don/jjapaguri!
3224. Yorum: 
3225. Yorum: my GOD, they made the best decision ever last night.
3226. Yorum: so unspeakably satisfying to watch this again today (in cinema this time) and then immediately watch it receive all the major award recognition it deserved by sweeping the academy awards
imagine taking 92 years to give a non-english speaking film an oscar for best picture!!! ahh ☝🏽 that’s history!!!!
3227. Yorum: IT'S WHAT SHE DESERVES
3228. Yorum: BEST PICTURE PERIODDDD I KNEW IT !!!!! not sleeping tonight too busy going apeshit
3229. Yorum: LOVE WHEN BEST PICTURE WINS BEST PICTURE
3230. Yorum: BEST PICTURE LETS FUCKING GOOOOOOOOOOOOO
3231. Yorum: Seeing Parasite in theaters again was not only absolutely worth it, but being in a room that was full of people made it all the more better. The fact that people flocked to a foreign film, especially one so twisty and intensely critical of how a lot of our modern world operates, speaks to how much this movie has made people talking, and about how good it is, too, might I add. 
This movie makes you feel every emotion, and how Bong Joon Ho ricochets from one tone to another is insane and masterfully done. It’s a pleasure to see someone in complete control of what they’re doing, and I really wouldn’t change anything about the flick. I’ll spare the analysis, because we all know this will be picked apart for years, and I can’t wait for even more people to discover this wonderful film.
3232. Yorum: review
3233. Yorum: funny how da vinci, picasso, van gogh, & michelangelo have been silent ever since parasite (2019)
3234. Yorum: IFFR
Got to watch the world premiere of the B&W version of Parasite! With a Q&A with Bong himself. Obviously one of the best theater experiences. I got to ask him “What important advise can you give young filmmakers?” And he replied “Are you struggling?”
He really seems to be a genuine and nice guy. Also he’s got a good sense of humour. 
The black and white version of Parasite is interesting, the music and comedy side of the film is more obvious. But the colours were are really good, the difference between the basement and the upstairs is better with colours. The music feels ignored and actually it’s one of my favorite soundtracks. Especially the song Yasan is really good.
3235. Yorum: Parasite is a South Korean film about a poor family getting themselves entangled with a rich one resulting in a whole slew of situations. Directed by Bong Joon-Ho (my favourite SK director from the movies I've watched so far), it's one of the most enthralling film experiences from 2019.
Thematically rich with social commentary and subtext perfectly weaved into the story making it all flow seamlessly, Parasite takes you on a rollercoaster of emotions. It's hilarious, thrilling, intense, sorrowful, and a lot of other things all rolled up into this one package. With strong writing and sublime direction on top, it's impossible not to be mesmerized or impressed on both superficial and deeper levels.
The actors did a phenomenal job all around enriching the story and complementing the writing/direction superbly. Song Kang Ho (Ki-Taek) and Cho Yeo Jeong (Mrs. Park) were the standouts for me. Gorgeous cinematography and detailed sound design work in tandem to thrust you into any given scene.
Since I didn't even watch a trailer and pretty much knew nothing apart from the basic premise, I'll keep this short considering most of you probably have seen oodles of praise for this film (rightfully given) and that it's best to go in as blind as possible (fear of spoiling it). It's without a doubt one of the best films to come out in 2019. A highly recommended one. Watch it in original language with subtitles. And if I were to rate it, I'd give it a 9-9.5/10.
3236. Yorum: Yes! This is cinema, baby!
This is a lot. I haven’t watched a film in about ten days and this was a great return to the art. A film so full of class commentary and humor that is entertaining yet dark as hell. 
The best picture race is so hard this year ughhhhhh!! 
Yes, this is cinema. *chef’s kiss*
3237. Yorum: 
3238. Yorum: just woke up in cold sweats knowing i’ll never be jessica, only child, illnois, chicago :(
3239. Yorum: "People who ride the subway have a special smell."
Four years since my last watch and I still don't know what to say about this film! It's much easier for me to criticize than praise (you're welcome, children I never plan to have). It's just absolutely fucking perfect and genre-spanning. I actually still call it a horror film. Before my first watch I knew nothing about the plot and assumed from the title and rave reviews it was going to be terrifying. And it fucking is! One of the most recent deserving Oscar Best Picture winners that I can't find a single thing to complain about.....except for the lack of acting nominations. Bong Joon-ho knows how to make a pessimistic film and he just eviscerates society and every heart that watches. But he's right. There are two sides and one are cruel idiots and the other break their backs, carrying their odor with them. I mean, wow, this is so metaphorical.
3240. Yorum: Poor people are FUCKED UP
3241. Yorum: absolute brilliance 😭😭👏👏 why did it take me this long to watch this masterpiece? i think because everyone loves it so much i was afraid i wouldn’t but i’m glad that is not the case!!
3242. Yorum: A perfect film from start to finish, one of the best of the decade and certainly the most unique. Bong Joon-Ho's master craft in filmmaking is a mix of thriller and humor through the lens of social satire. Don't be afraid of subtitles folks. (9/10)
3243. Yorum: So much waiting to see this, and yet, I wasn’t ready for it.
It made me laugh, then it made me intrigued, then it made me stay on the edge of the seat, I was afraid and a few moments later I almost cried, all in a period of 132 minutes.
Very few movies manage to do that to me, and I'm still trying to process it...
3244. Yorum: Hi. Here's my video on my favorite movies of the year.
THE BEST FILMS OF 2019
I love doing these, but it's a lot of work, so please consider watching.
3245. Yorum: i felt every emotion possible whilst watching this, holy smokes
3246. Yorum: ms peach going from a sex toy in 2017 to a murder weapon in 2019... versatility at its finest
3247. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho said Eat The Rich!
A thrilling social class analysis made by the master himself. It’s a bizarre black commentary about social statuses, aspirations, materialism, the patriarchal family unit and the idea of having a servant class. The detail to each character and act is out of this world. On top of that; breathtaking cinematography and Bong’s script and direction ties everything together. 
Act like you own the place; #BongHive forever.
3248. Yorum: “This ‘send’ button is like a missile launcher!” 
Okay, so. A little background to my viewing experience. I live in England and here, Parasite doesn’t release until February 2020 and when it does release the chances of it being shown in cinemas near me is very small. So I went along to an unknown film screening, and GOD BLESS it was Parasite! Thank you odeon for your service. 
I went into Parasite knowing hardly anything about it. I had never seen the trailer and I’d avoided reviews for it as best as I could (thought that did get a little difficult when everyone on this damn site has already seen it). All I really knew was that it was about two families on either side of the class divide. 
HOLY WOW! This film was something else... 
The visuals are stunning, the script is incredible, the acting from every single cast member is fantastic and the score is amazing. 
One of the greatest aspects of this film is the humour. The comedy is subtle throughout and yet it’s enough to fool you into a false sense of security and you don’t realise the whole thing is turning ridiculously sinister until it’s too late. Man the DOORBELL! 
I was captivated throughout the entire run time.
This was definitely anxiety-inducing, as I was always anxiously anticipating what was going to happen next. 
It’s odd because the film is nothing like it was at the start when it reaches its conclusion, yet at the same time, it’s the same. Social commentary for you: no matter how hard you try to get out of the bad siuation you’re in, in some way, you’ll always be stuck in it. 
I want to see it again so badly but it doesn’t come out here for 2 months RIP: me.
3249. Yorum: “Yeah I support rich rights. Rich rights to shut the fuck up“-Bong Joon Ho 2019
3250. Yorum: 
3251. Yorum: "wonder if people are going to pick up on the class commentary I'm going for here...."
Well Bong, I get that it's about class, but it's unclear what the film actually has to say ab-
"HYAHJHH! METAPHORICAL ROCK TO THE HEAD!"
3252. Yorum: every time i'm watching a movie now it's gonna be like "is it as good as parasite though?" and the answer is always gonna be the same: a flat-out, confident NO
3253. Yorum: Spectacular shape-shifting satire on modern-day capitalism. (Poetic that it should not come from the West). Trespassing isn’t just the film’s delicious central concept: it’s Bong Joon-ho’s defining gift as an artist. Genre rules assume different functions in his films: events that pass for “plot twists” are actually jolts in tone revealing underlying truths.
Sliding from the cramped to the spacious, PARASITE has been architecturally thought out. This isn't some Marxist class war: it's a struggle for vital breathing space. Astutely, Bong portrays the poor family as smart, wily and practical; also a little vulgar, which they have a right to be. They have no respect for anybody (respect is a commodity). The rich have room for relaxation and time for good manners; carelessness has made them vulnerable. What’s more, the poor have consumed the lives of the well-off through TV, cell phones, etc, which accounts for their astounding gift for role-playing. (They’re natural-born actors). The rich, crucially, are the poor’s entertainment; they’re also what gets them hooked.
But PARASITE is more than clever satire. It draws our attention to the nauseating familiarity between these two apparently distinct sets of people. In one scene, the Parks have couch sex in the living room while Mr. Kim listens furtively with his son and daughter, trying to hide his smell, horrifyingly aware of his position. It’s the culmination of the Kims’ debasement. It’s also suggestive of the larger incestuous link between the families--something primal about this entire rite, a seediness that’s always lurking.
Genius comic touches throughout: the rich mother making a cult of her son; cell phones likened to North Korean missiles; idiosyncratic banana-chewing and more. Scenes become richer in retrospect (the party during the thunderstorm). And there’s a disturbance throughout: the constant curveball, the threat of something neither party can see. It’s miraculous how a film of this nature can be emotionally affecting. The despondency of Song Kang-ho, his driftless despair, is heartbreaking.
An instant classic for our age... also a happy reminder that originality lives on against all odds.
3254. Yorum: Just keeps getting better. 3rd time seeing it and I’m still blown away.
3255. Yorum: 2019 best picture mark my words
3256. Yorum: Semana de Cannes #1 •

Dato curioso: Ví la película sentado a unas 4 filas de Gaspar Noe, un capo totalmente. Quería ver si alcanzaba a tomarle una foto a la salida de la sala y se esfumó mágicamente.
En fin, buen inicio en mi recorrido por la Semana de Cannes, dándole rewatch (pero ahora dónde se debe, en una sala de cine) a Parasite, una de pelis del año –y de la década —y del siglo!—–.
Lo que más me sorprendió es la forma en que el humor es tan funcional, sobre todo la primera hora estuvo llena de carcajadas de parte de todo el público, no te da esa misma sensación viéndola tú solo en tu habitación. Y luego la tensión solo fue un crescendo y la gente no exhalaba ni un suspiro.
Al final, aplausos y pitos. Magistral.
Qué película tan curiosa.
3257. Yorum: a masterpiece.
3258. Yorum: In my end of the decade top 100 list, I've chosen to only include one film per director. Some directors will be harder to choose from than others, but Parasite was just so goddamn fantastic that I don't have any doubt that this will be my entry for Bong Joon Ho.
It really does defy genres completely, its whatever it wants to be at that particular moment, and it all works incredibly well.
Probably one of my favorite posters of the year as well.
3259. Yorum: rly think trying to outflank this from the left is a fruitless critical play bc its characters‘ worldviews are rigidly defined as types, meaning this is basically a parable - the ending is capitalist realism 101. v schematic in the way a lot of bong’s contemporaries in korean genre film were/are schematic, but the tension still worked on me.
3260. Yorum: the trauma cake... me too
3261. Yorum: A gothic tale updated for modern times. The structure is extremely similar imo. A poor person gets a job at a manor and discovers secrets and horrors. It wouldn't feel out of place to swap out the house for a Castle. The couple in the basement function as doubles for the family, revealing there self-hated and base nature. I went in completely blind and let me tell you, when that plot twist hit, reader, I gasped out loud.
3262. Yorum: Park Dong-ik and Park Yeon-kyo are engaged in sexual activity on their couch. Dong-ik tells Yeon-kyo that if she were to put on the cheap panties they found in their car earlier, he would become more aroused. Hearing this, Yeon-kyo moans, "buy me drugs," as if she were the girl who had left the panties. 

This scene is the one that has stuck with me the most since seeing Parasite, and I'd like to give my personal analysis.
Part of what makes the moment so pivotal is that the tension of the previous scenes has already sucked in the viewer. The Kim family are desperately hiding under a table waiting for Dong-ik and Yeon-kyo to fall asleep. They’ve almost had their cover blown multiple times. And we’ve seen the struggles of poverty that have led them to this moment, but we haven’t seen much of the Park family’s private life up until now.
Yeon-kyo’s mockery of someone below her class and Dong-ik’s subsequent arousal reads to me as a metaphor for the rich’s dependency on the lower-class always suffering. Without that struggle, they can’t experience the pleasure of the lavish lives they lead. People in the position of the Kim family are institutionally made to be degraded and exploited by those in the position of the Park family.
There is no “fair” or civil way to put an end to exploitation, and I adore how masterfully Parasite communicates that point through moments like this.
3263. Yorum: 
3264. Yorum: I honestly don't know what to say. In the year that I've been using Letterboxd to spout my opinions, this is the most blank I've ever been while trying to write something. I was genuinely physically buzzing during several moments in Bong Joon-ho's tour de force. Parasite is nothing short of witty, nail-biting, immaculately crafted perfection on every level.
3265. Yorum: A clever, well thought out film.
3266. Yorum: I can't get enough of it. I watched it second time and it is even better than first time and first time was like amazing amazing.
3267. Yorum: SYNOPSIS: Parasite’s brilliant premise, subversive themes, and excellent directing make it one of the most unique and original movies you could hope to see in a theater today, even if that premise starts to wear thin in the endgame. 8.5/10
_________________________________________________________________________
I really don’t want to give away too much of the plot, even just the first half hour. Not because the movie has some huge, mind-blowing twist, but because it’s the kind of movie where part of the fun is slowly realizing what the movie is even about and what the characters are doing. But to give a very vague synopsis of the setup, the movie is about a young, poor man who is hired on to be a tutor for a rich family. He integrates himself in quite nicely and makes a decent pay, but through very twisted and darkly humorous means, begins to infiltrate the rich family’s lives more and more. The web weaved as a result of it of course gets tangled, and from there chaos begins to ensue.
You ever have that movie that you can fully acknowledge is great, maybe even one of the best you've seen in a while, and yet for some reason don't have immensely strong feelings for? That's kind of me with Parasite. It's a great movie that I don't love, and I'm still trying to sort out why that is. Nevertheless, this review will be "objective", as Parasite deserves a ton of praise as one of the most cleverly set up and skillfully crafted movies to come out in a while.
How to describe the genre of this movie? The closest I could say is that it’s a dark comedy that veers more into straight-up thriller territory in the last third. And very impressively, it all smoothly transitions between the darker and funnier tones. I always love it when movies are able to pull that off while still feeling like they have a singular unique tone. It’s practically its own genre, which is very refreshing.
Even more refreshing than that, however, is the ingenious setup. Again, I don’t want to fully divulge what it is, but it is highly original, very funny yet messed up, and offers insight into a variety of different themes and ideas regarding the dynamics between upper- and lower-class people, and what keeps those dynamics going. Even when things get a little less compelling in the last third, that fantastic premise and the fallout of it keeps the story engaging.
What I will say is that many of the characters in the movie are clearly immoral, manipulative, dirty people who do very underhanded things with little to no remorse. These are villain protagonists, plain and simple. The rich family, on the other hand, certainly aren’t portrayed as bad people; on the contrary, they’re very pleasant and likeable, and are more or less portrayed as completely innocent. But they are in many ways ignorant, as well as overly-dependent on the help, which humorously contrasts with the much more intelligent and capable poorer characters. It’s both funny and intriguing that there’s such an increasingly vicious attempt to claw one’s way into just a fraction of the wealth, placing all of the power into the hands of these relatively unintelligent people who own it. And it’s very satisfying to see the building consequences of these misguided efforts, especially in the third act.
But of course, larger questions can be raised from a dilemma like this, specifically regarding how the system has failed people to a point where they feel they need to go so below the belt to get what they want, as well as how it can shape their morality. You’d think that it’s as simple as the rich being kind and the poor being cruel, but is this a result of where they come from, or a cause of where they come from? There’s a lot that you can talk about just from how these characters behave and conduct themselves, and ponder as to why they’re making the choices they make.
Even though it’s a foreign-language film, I can still tell that these are excellent performances. It’s very difficult to make some of these people even remotely charming, but it’s somehow pulled off without losing focus of their unlikable deeds. The dialogue is also very sharply written, to the point where even the most seemingly trivial of lines can add something to think about. Indeed, it did take me a bit of thinking to realize how much the little touches in the writing do add to the film.
And of course, being a Bong Joon-ho film, it looks great. It’s both heavily stylized and deeply grounded at the same time. There isn’t a single visual dull moment, and a lot of symbolic imagery is frequently passing by.
However, I’ll admit that as I look at the reception the movie has received and read a couple of reviews after seeing it, I’m not as enthusiastic about it as the majority seems to be. There are definitely layers to be found and good themes to talk about, but I wasn’t necessarily blown away by much outside of the initial setup. I can acknowledge that Parasite is a great film, and yet I still don’t love it. It’s one of those rare movies where my “critical” rating is going to be higher than my personal “enjoyment” of it. Maybe over time this will change, or at the very least the reasons will become clearer to me. But … I don’t know, something just isn’t clicking with me to make me fall in love with it. Maybe I just have a different perspective of its social politics, or maybe there are some deeper elements I’m not quite grasping.
Or maybe it’s that, for me at least, the second half doesn’t offer nearly as many new layers or great story beats as the first half. It’s definitely an entertaining way to show the fallout of what’s happening, but there isn’t as much to think about that wasn’t already explored beforehand. What made the movie so fascinating and clever to me kind of fizzles out, and there aren’t that many great new developments to make up for it. The film feels a little lopsided as a result, which would be almost a non-issue if it was the second half that was stronger. It’s really hard to talk about all this without giving it away, so if you’ve seen the movie, please let me know if you think I’m missing something here. I realize that this is a borderline nitpick; I’m just bringing it up to try and pinpoint what’s holding by affections for the film back.
But despite this, don’t misunderstand me; I still really liked Parasite. It has a brilliant premise, clever writing, and a style that’s uniquely its own. It’s definitely one of the most original films you can hope to see in a theater these days, so that alone is worth supporting it. I think that there’s something in it for anyone to enjoy, so crawl on in and see for yourself.
8.5/10
3268. Yorum: 100
"That's so metaphorical!"
Followed the buzz but practically avoided any and all spoilers, including trailers, and the decision to do so resulted in one of the best times I've had in the theater this year. I'm no veteran of Bong Joon-ho's filmography, but the man really switches gears seamlessly and you'd never see it coming.
Hilarious. Mysterious. Bold. Beautiful. Intense. It's all of that, sometimes at once, yet it never exceeds its grasp. Bong Joon-ho extracts as much as he can from the power of cinema. It's hard to box this thing into a single word, but I can think of one. It's human. With its constant switching of gears, and genuine surprises at every corner, Bong Joon-ho is wonderfully delicate with each and every character. They all feel incredibly fleshed out in the way many of us might even latch on one of them or even several of them at a time. It's truly the movie for our times; in where we're desperate for answers for the times we live in. Bong Joon-ho looks within ourselves, and reveals all.
This is a must-see for 2019. Bring your friends. Family. My theater was packed. Make sure yours are. I really couldn't have imagined a better film to define this decade than this one. I'll be watching it a second time, I know I will. Go see it.
3269. Yorum: Just watched it again, in a theater this time, and it somehow was even better upon rewatch. Absolute perfection in every aspect. I can't get this outta my head.
3270. Yorum: You know how every Bong Joon-ho film has at least one setpiece that blows your mind? Okja had the escape, The Host has...an escape, Snowpiercer has the riot, etc. This movie is like a feature length version of those. 
I'm late to the party, so nearly all bases for Parasite have been covered. But believe me, I will sing the praises. A director and picture nomination will not be enough - Song Kang-ho deserves to be up for Best Actor (he isn't Supporting) and Park So-dam for Supporting Actress. Plus...that production design!
This is Bong Joon-ho's Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy. If you're familiar with Kanye's career, My Beautiful Dark Twisted Fantasy is the culmination of all his masterpieces thus far. Like Thanos completing the Infinity Gauntlet, this is Bong Joon-ho operating at full speed. You can really see elements of all his past films in this. This is what his career has been leading to.
3271. Yorum: I guess this is Hooptober-adjacent, but I chose not to count it towards my final tally. Also, I've already hit all the requirements this would fill.
Gonna keep this short: This is a great film. It is immensely enjoyable and has incredible pacing, performances, writing (or at least subtitled translation), cinematography, and sound. It is thrilling and tense, but also knows when to pull its punches. It is a remarkable work and will earn every accolade its given. If Bong Joon-Ho wasn't on the radar for casual cineastes, he should be now (and forever more). Maybe this film will truly break through and bring Korean cinema to everyone's attention.
All that said and done, I still enjoyed Snowpiercer more (even if it's a lesser film).
3272. Yorum: lifting the wealth rock in toast to bong joon-ho: RESPECT!
3273. Yorum: There's no better feeling than seeing a good movie.
3274. Yorum: Go see this movie with absolutely as little knowledge as possible. I'm not trying to hide some big twist like it turns out they're all in the future or some bullshit, but the plot unfolds so beautifully that even finding out how the characters reach the second act is a joy.
3275. Yorum: In Parasite, an act of (selfishly-motivated) good will spirals out of control in whiplash-inducing fashion. This pitch-black tragicomic domestic drama/caper flick/thriller/allegory unfurls with awesome confidence; literally, in that the pacing, plotting, direction inspire awe for the cinematic prowess on display.
You can’t help but root for the Kims in their acts of subterfuge: narratively, the family is too endearing, the Park household so blind and naive and dysfunctional, that such comeuppance is enthralling. Uneasy, sure, to watch their methodical infiltration built upon emotional manipulation and the cost of others, but enthralling nonetheless. Of course it helps that their con is infused with the style and energy of the best heist films: a freewheeling house of cards where every hand is a suit of witty improvisation and low-key resourcefulness. But that victory soon crumbles in a fateful crescendo of repercussions, as both the movie and tone descend into disorienting dread and nerve-wracking confrontation.
However, Parasite is a movie too smart to make the Parks the bad guys; there are no villains here, only the dominant and the downtrodden. Like peeling off a scab, the middle-act turn reveals the consequences festering beneath such good fortunes. Faced with “parasites” like themselves, we see that greed doesn’t iron out the Kims’ edges and appetite, doesn’t make them nicer, just makes them more desperate to maintain their momentary status. The good times are washed away in an apocalyptic flood, leaving behind only resentment and self-doubt and suffering. 
Is clawing out of the economic depths just a fleeting dream, a flight of fancy destined to shatter against the crushing burdens of struggle? Parasite’s bleak ending doesn’t offer much optimism.
3276. Yorum: 
3277. Yorum: somehow gets even better on a second viewing ok
3278. Yorum: movies: exist
korean movies: dont compare yourself to me EVER you are not on my level you never will be on my level do not compare yourself to ME
3279. Yorum: Qué despiporre tan divertido, ocurrente y demencial. El equilibrio entre el slapstick, la violencia, el humor negro, la tensión y el costumbrismo es espectacular. Todo ello envuelto en un ritmo y uso del espacio tremendos. Y discurso de clases como lacito. Estos coreanos (y Joon-ho en particular), qué capacidad para sortear barreras y convenciones de géneros. Qué fannnnntasía de película.
3280. Yorum: Parasite is so amazing that I never watched another film again for more than a month, because nothing would be as good or even come close to it's brilliance.
3281. Yorum: En el cine pocas veces se han reflejado de manera tan minuciosa y acerta esa lucha constante que existe entre las clases sociales. A la mente se me viene el magnífico retratado de esto que logró Akira Kurosawa en High and Low, pero ahora otro asiático lo ha logrado de una forma apabullante.
Gisaengchung aka Parasite es una propuesta que lo tiene todo. Desarrollo impecable de personajes, manejo ascendente de un clímax pocas veces visto y sobretodo una crítica que retumbará año tras año por su indiscutible realidad y la calidad cinematográfica con la que está representada.
Bong Joon-ho ha creado una película para la transcendencia, que logra capturar perfectamente el clasismo divisor que tiene la sociedad, así como la necesidad de dependencia de ambas clases para sobrevivir. Demostrando como quienes son de menos recursos, muchas veces logran ser más astutos y estrategas que los mismos ricos. Todo esto puede deberse a la constante lucha que debe hacer para sobrevivir con sus escasos recursos.
Hay detalles que demuestran el manejo del cineasta sobre su propuesta: mostrar como la naturaleza está vista en ocasiones como un castigo divino para los pobres, el propio aplastamiento que existe entre una misma clase por conseguir un poco de dinero y sobretodo el buen olfato que desarrolla el infante, heredado de su padre. Demostrando que uno nace puro, pero que la crianza y sociedad nos vuelve racista, xenofobico e irrespetuoso con los otros.
En definitiva, una obra maestra del cine surcoreano, muy merecida del máximo galardón recibido en el pasado Festival de Cannes y que estoy seguro que pasará pronto a las mejores películas de la historia, como ya lo está haciendo conmigo.
Sin duda alguna, la mejor película del año y una de las más importantes de la década. Simplemente no dejo de pensar en la forma tan magistral en la que el autor de The Host introduce sensaciones de tensión, miedo y repulsión en este retrato tan ácido de la sociedad.


"If I had all this I would be kinder."
3282. Yorum: I’m almost angry at how good this is. Bong Joon-ho is no stranger to exploring class disparity, but it’s handled here with grace and beauty as the film floats between dark comedy and quiet tragedy. It’s a film that doesn’t necessarily try to defend its con artist characters, but also acknowledges that perhaps kindness and courtesy are luxuries for those who can afford them.
3283. Yorum: I went into this knowing basically nothing about the premise, and I was absolutely blown away. Bong Joon-Ho has crafted an extremely unique genre-bending experience that is full of energy and has a lot on its mind. Definitely among the best of the year and I wouldn't be opposed to Bong scoring a director nom for this.
3284. Yorum: Revered among critics and audiences alike, PARASITE easily became one of my most anticipated films of the year, leaving Cannes with the famed and honoured Palme D’Or, the highest prize awarded at the festival.
“How much would I like it?” I pondered... A film this talked about must be something truly special, right? It must be an extraordinary piece of filmmaking that surpasses everyone’s expectations, right?
But what if it eventually disappoints me? What if, with all this anticipation and excitement, I’ve set myself up for dissapointment with these extremely high-placed expectations?
What was all this hype about? What could be so special about a film that it topped a masterful ode to Hollywood like Once Upon A Time In Hollywood, at Cannes? 
What made Bong Joon-Ho’s latest film so beloved that it managed to be the first Korean film to win a long-overdue Palme D’Or?
Well, the answer to that is rather simple: everything. Parasite is quite the perfect film in many ways - a black comedy-cum-thriller-cum social commentary about the modern-day societal class system in South Korea.
Well-furnished with Bong Joon-Ho’s fascinatingly distinct idiosyncrasies, his latest film is a non-stop ride of great amusement and entertainment, incorporating a thrilling story with a bewilderingly astonishing round of performances, including two standout, awe-inspiring performances from Choi Woo-shik and Kang-Ho Song. 
Parasite is a blender, and Bong Joon-Ho is the master of this blender. With his latest invention, Bong blends together the makings of what makes a film essentially masterful. 
He blends in comedy, satire, drama, acute tone shifts and critically profound social commentary, crafting a work of art that vividly comments on the societal divide between the class systems in South Korea, truly marking an unprecedented high for Korean cinema.
Bong Joon-Ho is a master of his craft. This is him at the height of his craft. This is him evocatively and masterfully shaping and sculpting his masterpiece, the way he deems fit. He is an artist - a sculptor, and Parasite is his winning sculpture, his work of art, his life’s masterpiece.
This is the highest level of artistry - art that is formed from a director’s creative freedom. From his own vision, passion and mastery. A film that truly exhibits the latent artistry that exists within the works of cinema.
Parasite being a 2019 release is truly a high note to end the decade on.
3285. Yorum: Went for a second helping of Bong Joon-ho's Parasite at the Karlovy Vary Film Festival - just couldn't help it. I love this film so much!! It's a remarkable work of cinema that will live on (forever) and be discussed for so long. It's just perfect in every possible way, and the audience is always so into it. And that means it has universal appeal, despite being very specifically Korean, it's a timeless masterpiece that any and every viewer will appreciate.
The audience always cheers at this one big moment every time and I love it and applaud with them and it just makes me smile constantly after that scene. And there's so much more I saw in the film this second time, so much depth and so many layers to it ahhhh my god Bong Joon-ho you genius. He's the best!!!! Bong rules.
Aside from all the brilliant references to society worked right into the characters in the film, one aspect of this that I enjoyed even more this time is the score. It's SO important to the film, and brings even more gravitas and emphasis to the story as it plays out. At times it's beautiful, at times it's haunting, at times it's intense and plays right into the action. THIS FILM! Adore it all soooooo much.
3286. Yorum: Parasite somehow managed to keep the narrative’s momentum stronger and stronger throughout the film—it is truly a masterful social commentary about class where all its elements work So Damn Well together creating a piece of art that left me on edge and speechless after the screening. It’s funny, it’s heartbreaking, it’s scary, it’s tense, it’s bleak, and it’s also wild as fuck. The moment when I figured out why it’s titled Parasite and everything just clicked... Almost matched Archimedes’ Eureka moment.
I had to sit this one out for hours until I’m mentally somewhat ready to write up my thoughts. Films like these are exactly why I love the cinema. Masterpiece literally a masterpiece.
3287. Yorum: ya bok adam evinde ufak capli savas cikmis, oglun kriz geciriyor araba acil lazim hala adamin kokusunu yargiliyorsun KAFAYI YEMELIK
3288. Yorum: One of my all time favourites, the first foreign film I ever watched and also the first film that really made me fall in love with not just cinema but art in general. I've lost my movie mojo recently (only seen like 4 films this month) so I thought I'd rewatch most of my old 5 stars to see how they hold up and bring back some passion for watching them
3289. Yorum: 
3290. Yorum: Enigmatic of the recent trend and the point oscar shills wont shut up about: that the oscars are finally diversifying to support international film on a larger scale, but recent larger film consciousness to brush up with the international arthouse reads so functional and without reflection of intellectual introspection towards (any) international films themes at play, the guise of political awareness only draped over by the bastions of public opinion trendsetters when its function serves only the complacency of the working class to settle down and recognize their place, revolutionary cinema still given the air of othering, meanwhile the facade of confrontation emphasized here is supported tenfold, your anger against the rich is nothing more than dramatic intrigue to dilute into the quest for capital, like Bong building a fire but still inviting the investors a seat on the logs to let them know the function of political cinema will now be the definitionary didactic dialogue of concepts without the specificity of rage that would make any of this worthwhile, after all we are the parasites,,, like going to a museum and seeing the definition of capitalism framed in gold, an apolitical dish of struggle that can only end in the dilution of rage born from that struggle to just sit tight until you can watch a sunrise with someone you love, what would that mean for life, idk, but it looks pretty. Shot like shit to. Made me remember the time we were sharing what media/art/whathaveyou, we were inspired by in communications art class and i said i was really enjoying japanese ghost dramas (i was binging k. kurosawa), and someone interrupted and screamed “oh dude like parasite!!!”
3291. Yorum: SOMETIME ONE PARASITE CAN BECOME A BIG PROBLEM
Ho wow this movie is a fucking MASTERPIECE that take out my brain out of my head so many times!!!
This movie is perfect the acting,the cinematography,the story everything its perfectly done!!!
The end is one of this ending that just le you there thinking of the MASTERPIECE you just watch!!!
A MASTERPIECE TO SEE IN IS LIFE FOR SURE!!!
Plot:5/5
Pacing:5/5
Characters:5/5
Soundtrack:4/5
Cinematography:5/5
Acting:5/5
Enjoyability(personnal):5/5
General Note:4.8/5
3292. Yorum: Actually an impossible movie to review. It’s too good to say reduce to a funny one-liner review but also too good for me to be able to explain using my clearly limited vocabulary. Just the sort of movie that needs to be seen to be believed, and then seen again, and again and again.
3293. Yorum: How the hell could someone not love this film? This film is perfect in every way possible
3294. Yorum: It’s still a freakin’ masterpiece
3295. Yorum: Parasite (2019), enough said.
3296. Yorum: 𝐏𝐀𝐑𝐀𝐒𝐈𝐓𝐄: 𝐎𝐁𝐕𝐈𝐎𝐔𝐒𝐋𝐘

When Parasite came out, you can't argue that it was a global phenomenon. It came out and everybody in their right mind was going to see it. I wanted to go see it, my dad sent me and my sister an email after he heard about the movie. Me and my (then) 8 year old sister, he sent this:
This movie is supposed to be AWESOME!!!
They haven't been advertising but the reviews are great.
Its by the director of Okja.
I always find that email funny. Nobody knew that the film was gonna be a great success, it was just a movie by the director of Okja. But it turned into something nobody saw coming. And when it won best picture, my family gave in. Let us watch Parasite and everything changed for me.
I had always wanted to be a filmmaker. Since I was a kid. It was always for one reason, to make people feel how I felt watching movies. Even when I was little I wanted other little boys to watch my movies and feel the things I felt watching Star Wars and Rocky and Endgame and all the other favorites that every kid my age had. I wanted to tell stories. And I didn't realize it back then, but there is a major prejudice in Hollywood against Asians. I mean, name 3 major Asian-American directors off the top of your head. There really aren't too many. Take that further, name 10 asian-american actors that look like me. I mean, there really aren't that many. And I didn't think much of it back when I was a kid since I was always exposed to Asian films like Ghibli and Okja (which was very sadly one of my favorite childhood movies which is... very dark for an 8 year old when it came out). And not only was I exposed to this, but obviously my mother was Asian. Most of the people in my life growing up, friends and family, are Asian. So I never thought about it. But the older I get the more I worry about it, and the more that I need this movie to calm me down and let me be confident in myself and who I am.
I have many stories about this. About this Asian prejudice. When I was a kid, I used to tell people I didn't have a middle name. As some of you guys know, my middle name is Choe, the most asian sounding name you can think of. I think I didn't want people to know that because it was so Asian. But now, I add it as part of my name, because I want to be that Asian-American filmmaker that there are so few of. I'm not Micah Pollack, some white washed American, I'm Asian and I gotta embrace that.
And yeah, it's Parasite. I hate when people say 'there's nothing to be said that hasn't already been' but I honestly don't know what else to say. Everything is perfect. And maybe if you're white it won't be as good, I'm not sure, but I think there's enough for you here that you'll love it no matter what you look like. Fantastic film, taught me a lot. Should be higher, I'm not sure why it's not. I moved it down today and I'm starting to regret it but I already have the review written out, maybe I'll move it up later
Favorite Film #11 - Parasite
3297. Yorum: Why has no one ever talked about this flick?
3298. Yorum: My expectations were really high going into this and wasn’t disappointed omg. It started off slow but it didn’t really feel like it dragged and there were some comedic bits that kept it entertaining. Performances were amazing, script was incredible. That bit on the couch was so weird to watch with my mom next to me.
(Spoilers in next paragraph)
Some seriously creepy moments, I feel uncomfortable. The bits where she’s running down the basement and when the man comes up from the basement and looks at the little boy dude dead creepy. Also couldn’t tell who I felt sorry for like I kept changing whose side I was on - like that family were so poor, but they were taking advantage out of that family which is wrong. But the rich family were so rude with some of the things they did, like the dad really annoyed me, but also they didn’t know what had happened to the family when it flooded the previous night. Then the old house keepers husband, felt for him, but then he killed the boy, but his wife had just been killed. Like I really didn’t know whose side to be on. 
I really didn’t know how they were going to end it and I wasn’t disappointed. 
I thought I’d get annoyed at the subtitles too but it didn’t really change what I thought of it as a whole. 
Overall love it !!
3299. Yorum: Every time I see it I like it more than the previous one. I wish I could rank it with more than five stars.
3300. Yorum: 95%
For the last few months, I've restrained myself from learning anything about Parasite, knowing I'd eventually get around to it. Well, today was the day and I am blown away.
Right now there's nothing much I can say about the film that hasn't already been said, but yes it as good as everyone says it is. It's perfectly crafted and is one of those movies that will stick with you in the back of your mind, begging you to watch it again to further prove to you its masterfulness. I'll have more to say about it upon a rewatch but for now, all I can say is WOW.
Added: Ranking of Cinema
Added: 2019: First to Worst
3301. Yorum: Third viewing, again in a cinema, still one of my favorite films of the last decade. I'm absolutely amazed that six months after the beginning of its initial theatrical run, it's still available in theatres. Haven't been to such a packed cinema screening in a long time, probably since the last Star Wars film.
This time, the score and the editing caught my eyes and ears much more profoundly. Absolutely masterful. I really begin to think of this as a movie that I just can't get enough of.
2019 Ranked
Neon Ranked
Bong Joon-Ho's Films Ranked
Best Picture Winners Ranked
Featured in: Great Movies
3302. Yorum: 
3303. Yorum: First half of the movie: Bong Joon Woah!
Second half of the movie: Bong Joon Oh!
3304. Yorum: Even though this is my 2nd favorite movie of last year behind The Irishman, it’s the most well-deserved Best Picture winner since Moonlight.
3305. Yorum: Finally got into the right mindset to watch this (due in no small part to a certain someone sharing his hilariously uninformed opinion of Parasite's Best Picture win.) It's safe to say that after seeing this last night and having it occupy most of my thoughts since then that this was the perfect film to celebrate turning 20 with.
3306. Yorum: Maybe the most unapologetic genre film Oscar® sweep since Silence of the Lambs? Remove Parasite's subtitles, and you have a slick pop thriller made with enough reversals and setups and payoffs to make even the most clueless Hollyweird suit white knuckle a theater seat. Anyone saying this is an art film or difficult probably just hates reading. And the additional commentary about the working class fighting themselves instead of the real rich enemy still packs a punch. If he lived in America, the "respect" guy would probably be licking Bloomberg's boots. Weird how people seem to worship wealth in any country.
3307. Yorum: “what a crazy family!” -my mom
3308. Yorum: So that's where that missing half a star was.
It was in a re watch.
Uncut Gems has a new challenger for the 2019 throne. I honestly don't know what's gonna take it.
3309. Yorum: my mom & i every two seconds: 
“WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK”
3310. Yorum: Move over Memories of Murder, the greatest film of Bong Joon Ho's career has just fumigated its way into my life and now I am cleansed of all my sins.
I could explain in detail everything that makes this film perfect but it would only capture a flicker of it all. It escapes any one reading. Heartbreaking, terrifying and oh-so-very-pleasing to look at, Parasite turns what could be a simple class-war con-man arc into a lacerating (and fricken' hilarious, at times) comment on money and power and just what financial destitution can do the heart of mankind, to the family, to our very soul. The acting is...unacceptably good. No one has a single bum line, no performance bests another. Everything works.
It is a film of perfect symmetry.
3311. Yorum: Reinforces the system it critiques.
3312. Yorum: Arriving on a wave of hype since its Palme d’Or win in May, Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is every bit as mesmerizing as the buzz surrounding it suggests. With a razor-sharp script and excellent contributions from all players involved on both sides of the camera, it sunk its hooks into me within the opening minutes and never let go. Bong aims for many thematic and aesthetic targets over the course of the film, and he hits virtually every one with stunning precision. As a satire on social climbing and the aloofness of the upper class, it’s dead-on and has parallels to the American Dream that American viewers are unlikely to miss; as a dark comedy, it’s often laugh-aloud hilarious in its audacity; as a thriller, it has brilliantly-executed moments of tension and surprises that genuinely caught me off-guard; and as a drama about family dynamics, it has tender moments that stand out all the more because of how they’re juxtaposed with so much cynicism elsewhere in the film. Handling so many different tones is an immensely difficult balancing act, yet Bong handles all of it so skillfully that he makes it feel effortless. Though I often had the sense that something horrible was just seconds away from happening, the film plays its twists and turns close to the vest and I found myself surprised and startled by numerous developments. The acting is superb across the board, particularly from Song Kang-ho as the deceptive family’s patriarch and Cho Yeo-jeong as the naïve mother of the wealthy family. Song is convincing as an embattled opportunist who seems like he’s just one push away from cracking, and Cho’s obliviousness to the Kim family’s grifting and the ways in which her privilege have sealed her off from the real world often make for effective humor. Taken as a whole, Parasite covers so much ground and leaves viewers with so much to unpack that it’s tough not to get swept up in it as it runs and continue to ponder its messages and implications after it ends. It’s an experience unlike any other I’ve had at a movie this year.
3313. Yorum: I was so worried that I would be the one person I knew who hated this film, but no, it was totally really good! *Phew*
3314. Yorum: Can you forgive the last twenty percent of a film that absolutely kills it for the first eighty percent? That's the question that “Parasite” poses after starting out as a con caper before turning miraculously into a class warfare horror-thriller. All along the way, there's a palpable electricity in the air, a stirring sense of inventiveness at work. The tension is turned up so high and the conflict at the heart of the movie is so novel that it's almost enough to see the setup without the payoff. Indeed, Bong Joon-Ho could have easily stopped the movie much sooner than he does and walked away a winner. But he doesn't, and as he tries to resolve his impossible puzzle, that incredible nuance and rigor he brought to the first two acts seems to abandon him. So close.
3315. Yorum: 
3316. Yorum: perfect from the very first second to the ultimate fade to black. 2 hours of how to do cinema. a masterpiece in every sense of the word. nothing should be this good. i wanna see this movie literally every day. it's really ~that~ good and many more.
3317. Yorum: Jetzt beim zweiten mal gucken muss ich eindeutig das Wort Meisterwerke in den Mund nehmen. Ich bin hin und weg, könnte den morgen gleich nochmal schauen. Ein absoluter Pflichtfilm! Am besten mit so wenig Infos wie möglich reingehen und es auf sich zukommen lassen.
3318. Yorum: this movie was fantastic and funny and everything i wanted but the ending absolutely DESTROYED me BECAUSE IT IS A GODDAMN METAPHOR for promising your parents and yourself you will be the one to take care of them in their old age with all the money you’re making from your shiny job and you’ll buy them a nice house and you will all be together always and live under the same roof forever BUT in reality you’re not making jack shit at your job and you’ll never be able to buy a house or financially take care of them in this economy.... i mean you can’t even give them a call or a text more than once a week???? it’s all a pipe dream and now your sister is dead and it’s your fault your dad will live in the basement forever
3319. Yorum: I don’t even know what to say I’m so— the last 15 mins made me feel like I was on crack. the way my mouth fell open at the ending I had to pause to collect my thoughts. this shit was in different areas!!! 
___
Ok I’ve collected my thoughts. I’m mad because I really assumed I had a clear understanding of how the film would turn out 1 hour in and it went ↪️  but like I’m glad it did because I loved it. This was seriously engaging from start to finish not just because I had to read subtitles and actually pay attention but the writing & the twist(s) 👩🏾‍🍳 💋
3320. Yorum: Surprisingly my local cinema offers screenings of the film of the year, Parasite. So of course I felt the urge to watch this masterpiece again, this time on the big screen. My main two take-aways: Watching Parasite on the big screen makes an already perfect film even better. And the german dub is alright, I guess.
What are you waiting for?
GO WATCH THIS ASAP!
3321. Yorum: Bong continues making films that are completely unclassifiable in genre. Riotously funny, sad, tense, and clever all at once. Few directors are as adept as Bong at filling their films with heavy, urgent themes while still letting the films be fun as hell. I can't wait to watch this one over and over.
Go in knowing as little as you can, forget Endgame this is the movie you won't want to be spoiled on.
3322. Yorum: The tension of Parasite literally had me forgetting to breathe in parts, this is the most immersive film experience I've had in 2019.
3323. Yorum: I applaud Bong for his work here, which is certainly best picture-worthy. Once again, he practises his favourite exercise of juggling multiple genres and it comes to fruition moderately well. You'd as well give him his own genre, as by now defining his body of work generally amounts to "crime-drama thriller with a hint of dark comedy and possibly action - sci-fi too if the film's in English". His return to his home country is a prolific one, with what might be the effort with the most control over its tonal shifts and genre parameters. Fundamentally, it's a well-made crowdpleaser that impresses on its clever deviations from most mainstream cinema and thrill-value. Act 2's twist is one of the better ones in recent memory and is the moment the film transitions into darker territory. If I must nitpick, the morse code nonsense is tough to swallow and the third act completely falls apart/goes all over the place. Still, I was entertained, and that's better than what 90% of new releases accomplish.
3324. Yorum: can’t remember the last time a movie made me feel every emotion under the sun. parasite for best picture — not best foreign picture — period.
3325. Yorum: I don't want it to sound too bombastic but movies like this are exactly the reason why I love cinema. The premise is highly unique and I love the social commentary sewed tightly with the hilarious lines and dramatic moments. The end absolutely devastated me and I sobbed for 5 minutes and am still feeling down. Flawless film.
3326. Yorum: PARASSITA-sostantivo maschile
In biologia, qualsiasi organismo animale o vegetale che viva a spese di un altro.
Bong Joon-ho torna ad alti livelli con un film che parte piano, si prende il suo tempo e fa pure sorridere, poi deflagra in un allucinatorio delirio fra US di Peele e una denuncia serrata delle diseguaglianze di classe che ancora affliggono come un secolo fa il mondo apparentemente civilizzato.
Il "popolo degli abissi" di londoniana memoria cerca di emergere dantescamente alla luce ma viene ricacciato nelle tenebre della miseria e del fallimento, mentre in superficie gli abbienti si ingrassano e non cedono un millimetro del loro privilegio.
Alla fine viene da chiedersi se il parassita vive in alto o in basso, se indossa stracci o abiti firmati.
Palma d'oro (meritata) a Cannes.
3327. Yorum: .- / -.-. .-.. . ...- . .-. .-.. -.-- / -- .- -.. . --..-- / .. -- .--. .-. . ... ... .. ...- . .-.. -.-- / ... .... --- - --..-- / .- -. -.. / .. -. - .-. .. -.-. .- - . .-.. -.-- / .-- .-. .. - - . -. / ..-. .. .-.. -- / ..-. .-. --- -- / --- -. . / --- ..-. / - .... . / --. .-. . .- - / ... --- ..- - .... / -.- --- .-. . .- -. / ..-. .. .-.. -- -- .- -.- . .-. ... --..-- / .--. .- .-. .- ... .. - . / .. ... / .- / .-- . .-.. .-.. -....- .--. .-.. .- -. -. . -.. / . -..- .--. . .-. .. . -. -.-. . / - --- / -... . .... --- .-.. -.. / -.--. .-- .. -. -.- -.--.- / .- -. -.. / .-- .. - .... --- ..- - / .- / -.. --- ..- -... - / --- -. . / --- ..-. / - .... . / -... . ... - / ..-. .. .-.. -- ... / --- ..-. / - .... . / -.-- . .- .-. .-.-.-

.--. .- .-. .- ... .. - . / - . .-.. .-.. ... / - .... . / --. .-. . . -.- / - .-. .- --. . -.. -.-- -....- . ... --.- ..- . / - .- .-.. . / --- ..-. / .- / ..-. .- -- .. .-.. -.-- / .. -. / - --- - .- .-.. / .--. --- ...- . .-. - -.-- / .-- .... --- / .. -. - .-. ..- -.. . ... / --- -. / - .... . / .-.. .. ..-. . / --- ..-. / .- / ... .. --. -. .. ..-. .. -.-. .- -. - .-.. -.-- / .-. .. -.-. .... . .-. / ..-. .- -- .. .-.. -.-- / ..-. --- .-. / - .... . .. .-. / --- .-- -. / .--. .-. --- ..-. .. - .-.-.- / - .... . / ..-. .. .-.. -- / . ..-. ..-. --- .-. - .-.. . ... ... .-.. -.-- / .-- . .- ...- . ... / .. - ... . .-.. ..-. / - .... .-. --- ..- --. .... / -... --- - .... / .... .. .-.. .- .-. .. --- ..- ... / -.-. --- -- . -.. -.-- / .- -. -.. / - . -. ... . / - .... .-. .. .-.. .-.. ... / - .... .- - / .-. ..- -. / -.-- --- ..- / - .... .-. --- ..- --. .... / - .... . / .-- .... --- .-.. . / --. .- -- ..- - / --- ..-. / . -- --- - .. --- -. ... / - --- / .. -- -- . -. ... . .-.. -.-- / --. .-. . .- - / . ..-. ..-. . -.-. - / --- -. -.-. . / .. - .----. ... / --- ...- . .-. --..-- / ..-. .. .-.. - . .-. .. -. --. / .. - ... . .-.. ..-. / - .... .-. --- ..- --. .... / ... . ...- . .-. .- .-.. / -.. .. ..-. ..-. . .-. . -. - / --. . -. .-. . ... / .-- .... .. .-.. . / -.. . .-.. .. ...- . .-. .. -. --. / .. -. ... .. --. .... - ..-. ..- .-.. / ... --- -.-. .. .- .-.. / -.-. --- -- -- . -. - .- .-. -.-- / --- -. / -.-. .-.. .- ... ... / -.. .. ... .--. .- .-. .. - -.-- / .- -. -.. / - .... . / ... - .-. ..- --. --. .-.. . ... / - .... .- - / . -. ... ..- . / ..-. .-. --- -- / .. - .-.-.- / - .... . / -.-. .... .- .-. .- -.-. - . .-. ... / .- .-. . / .- .-.. .-.. / ..- -. .. --.- ..- . / .-- .. - .... / ...- . .-. -.-- / -.. .. ... - .. -. -.-. - / .- -. -.. / -- . -- --- .-. .- -... .-.. . / - .-. .- .. - ... --..-- / - .... . / ... - --- .-. -.-- / - .- -.- . ... / -- .- -. -.-- / - .-- .. ... - ... / .- -. -.. / - ..- .-. -. ... / - .... .- - / ... .. --. -. .. ..-. .. -.-. .- -. - .-.. -.-- / .-. .- .. ... . / - .... . / ... - .- -.- . ... / . .- -.-. .... / .- -. -.. / . ...- . .-. -.-- / - .. -- . --..-- / .- -. -.. / . ...- . .-. -.-- / ... .. -. --. .-.. . / -.. . - .- .. .-.. / -.. --- .-- -. / - --- / - .... . / -- .. -. ..- - .. .- . / .. ... / .--. .- .. -.. / -.-. .-.. --- ... . / .- - - . -. - .. --- -. / - --- --..-- / ... --- -- . - .. -- . ... / . ...- . -. / -- .- -.. . / --. .-. . .- - .-.. -.-- / ... .. --. -. .. ..-. .. -.-. .- -. - --..-- / -- .- -.- .. -. --. / ..-. --- .-. / .- -. / .- - -- --- ... .--. .... . .-. . / - .... .- - .----. ... / -.-. --- .... . .-. . -. - .-.. -.-- / .- .. .-. - .. --. .... - / .- -. -.. / .- .-.. ... --- / -.-. --- -- .--. . .-.. .-.. .. -. --. .-.. -.-- / .-. . .- .-.. .. ... - .. -.-. .-.-.-
.- .-.. .-.. / --- ..-. / - .... . / .--. . .-. ..-. --- .-. -- .- -. -.-. . ... / -... . -. . ..-. .. - / - .... . / ..-. .. .-.. -- / ... .. --. -. .. ..-. .. -.-. .- -. - .-.. -.-- --..-- / .. -. / .--. .- .-. - .. -.-. ..- .-.. .- .-. --..-- / --- -. . / ..-. .-. --- -- / -.-. .... --- .. / .-- --- --- -....- ... .... .. -.- --..-- / .-- .... --- / -.-. --- -- .--. .-.. . - . .-.. -.-- / .-. . -.. . . -- ... / .... .. -- ... . .-.. ..-. / ..-. .-. --- -- / .- -.-. - .. -. --. / --.- ..- .. - . / -... .- -.. .-.. -.-- / .. -. / ... -.-. .... .-.. --- -.-. -.- / .-.. .. -.- . / .-..-. - .... . / .-- .. - -.-. .... ---... / .--. .- .-. - / .---- / -....- / - .... . / ... ..- -... ...- . .-. ... .. --- -. .-..-. / - --- / .--. --- ... ... .. -... .-.. -.-- / -.. . .-.. .. ...- . .-. .. -. --. / - .... . / -... . ... - / ... ..- .--. .--. --- .-. - .. -. --. / .--. . .-. ..-. --- .-. -- .- -. -.-. . / --- ..-. / - .... . / -.-- . .- .-. .-.-.- / - .... . / -.-. .. -. . -- .- - --- --. .-. .- .--. .... -.-- / .. ... / -.. -.-- -. .- -- .. -.-. / .- -. -.. / . ..-. ..-. --- .-. - .-.. . ... ... .-.. -.-- / ..-. .-. .- -- . -.. --..-- / - .... . / ... --- ..- -. -.. - .-. .- -.-. -.- / .-. --- -.-. -.- ... --..-- / . - -.-. .-.-.- / .- --. .- .. -. --..-- / . ...- . .-. -.-- / ... .. -. --. .-.. . / .- ... .--. . -.-. - / --- ..-. / - .... . / ..-. .. .-.. -- / .. ... / .--. .- .. -.. / -.-. .-.. --- ... . / .- - - . -. - .. --- -. / - --- --..-- / .- -. -.. / .. - / ... .... --- .-- ... .-.-.-
.. ..-. / -.-- --- ..- / . ...- . .-. / --. . - / - .... . / -.-. .... .- -. -.-. . / - --- / ... . . / .--. .- .-. .- ... .. - . --..-- / -.. --- / ... --- / .- ... / ... --- --- -. / .- ... / -.-- --- ..- / -.-. .- -. .-.-.- / .. - .----. ... / .. -- .--. . -.-. -.-. .- -... .-.. -.-- / -.-. .-. .- ..-. - . -.. / .- -. -.. / ... ..- .-. .--. .-. .. ... .. -. --. .-.. -.-- / .- -.-. -.-. . ... ... .. -... .-.. . / .- .-.. .-.. / .-- .... .. .-.. . / -... . .. -. --. / .-.. .- -.-- . .-. . -.. / . -. --- ..- --. .... / ..-. --- .-. / .--. . --- .--. .-.. . / .-- .... --- / .-- .- -. - / - --- / ... . .- .-. -.-. .... / ..-. --- .-. / .. - ... / -.. . . .--. . .-. / -- . .- -. .. -. --. / - --- / .... .- ...- . / -- .- - . .-. .. .- .-.. / ..-. --- .-. / . -. -.. .-.. . ... ... / -.. .. ... -.-. ..- ... ... .. --- -. .-.-.-
.- -. -.. / ..-. .. -. .- .-.. .-.. -.-- --..-- / - --- / -.. .. .-. . -.-. - --- .-. / -... --- -. --. / .--- --- --- -. -....- .... --- / .... .. -- ... . .-.. ..-. --..-- / - .... . / -- .- -. / -... . .... .. -. -.. / .. - / .- .-.. .-.. --..-- / .- -. -.. / - .... . / ..-. .. .-. ... - / ... --- ..- - .... / -.- --- .-. . .- -. / .--. .- .-.. -- . / -.. .----. --- .-. / .-- .. -. -. . .-. / .. -. / .... .. ... - --- .-. -.-- --..--
.-. . ... .--. . -.-. - -.-.--
9/10.
3328. Yorum: 
