1. Yorum: Update: Now in video form
2. Yorum: call me by your name’s cum peach walked so parasite’s killer peach could run
3. Yorum: Another Bong hit.
4. Yorum: Our expectations were high but HOLY FUCK
5. Yorum: a question to people who rate this 4.5: what more do you want literally what more do you want
6. Yorum: One detail I noticed this time around is that Min and Mr. Park both react the same way to being asked if they like or love the people that they're romantically involved with– by laughing. And in Mr. Park's case, giving a sarcastic answer that undercuts his saying 'yes'. Min and Mr. Park are both seen as powerful figures deserving of respect, and the way they dismissively respond to an earnest question about whether they truly care for the people they're supposed to tells us a lot about how powerful people think about not just the people below them, but everyone in their lives.
7. Yorum: The tent won’t leak. It’s from America.
8. Yorum: The bloody napkin scene....top 3 scenes of all time. Hands down.
9. Yorum: morse code me by your name and i'll morse code you by mine
10. Yorum: maybe the real parasite... was the friends we made along the way
11. Yorum: crazy rich asians walked, so that they could get stabbed in parasite
12. Yorum: A garden party.
14. Yorum: Jessica, only child ✌️ from Illinois Chicago, classmate of Kim Jin-mo, he’s your cousin✌️ 🎼 
15. Yorum: Watched with a live orchestra and an introduction by Bong. It was one of my favorite experiences at a theatre, obviously.
16. Yorum: parasite is my minimalist architecture porn like yes unplastered grey stone walls mahogany floor and impractical enormous glass panels inject that in me
17. Yorum: "No one can imitate North Korean news anchors like you" gotta be the rarest compliment ever
18. Yorum: I'M SCREAMING I'M CRYING THIS IS THE BEST SHIT THAT HAS EVER HAPPENED THE FILM THAT TRULY MADE ME A CINEPHILE IS THE FIRST FOREIGN FILM TO EVER WIN BEST PICTURE WE WON bong can now finally go and drink his guts out, bless his heart
20. Yorum: Something I’ve wondered since the first viewing: toward the end when Ki-Woo mentions “the doctor who looked nothing like a doctor” and “the lawyer who looked nothing like a lawyer,” is this meant to subtly hint that everyone in this universe is faking it, not just the Kims?
21. Yorum: I hadn't seen a trailer and had no idea what the premise of it even was and BOY OH BOY did I have a wonderful couple of hours. Pure movie joy.
22. Yorum: kim ki-taek the original self isolator
23. Yorum: Woh, that kid is going to need a much bigger trauma recovery cake.
24. Yorum: I've come to make an announcement:
25. Yorum: not to sound dramatic but that flood scene changed me
27. Yorum: Unintentionally decided now, in the middle of my Ansel binge, was a good time to rewatch this. Not realizing I also decided to rewatch Parasite in the middle of my Noah Centineo marathon. Just putting that out there as a way of thanking Bong for getting me through these tough times.
29. Yorum: Holy fucking shit. I can’t tell if this movie is a masterpiece or if Bong Joon-ho himself is the masterpiece.
30. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho, the sui generis South Korean auteur behind unclassifiable modern wonders like “Barking Dogs Never Bite” and “The Host,” has always made films that refuse to fit the narrow parameters of any particular genre. Each of them is built atop a bedrock of comic violence that Bong uses to support the weight of the heavy stories he places on top of it, but simply categorizing “Snowpiercer” as science-fiction or “Memories of Murder” as a mystery would require you to ignore the rare magic that holds them together, and deny the controlled instability that allows them to keep changing shape before your eyes.
31. Yorum: despite what mr. park might think, this movie smells so fucking good
32. Yorum: They’re rich but still nice
33. Yorum: I saw someone on Twitter doing that annoying thing where they sneer at the idea that a movie that people love really could be as good as they say and then asking for more opinions, hoping to find just one person who says something like "it was fine" and then latch onto that one take as the definitive proof that there's some sort of conspiracy (?) to declare a film as great when it's actually "just fine." It's a very stupid trend that seems like a thinly-veiled way to get ahead of the curve and preemptively shit on a popular movie and cast all of that movie's fans as rabid sheep who can't think for themselves, in order to present as someone having a hot take that makes you seem smarter and more with it than all those "idiots" who enjoyed the movie– but it alllllllways comes across as corny and embarrassingly contrarian.
34. Yorum: leaving the arclight I heard a girl say “holy shit. can’t wait to read the letterboxd reviews on this,” and I think she’s right.
35. Yorum: if this doesn’t win the palme d’or i’m burning the palais to the ground
36. Yorum: I'm not the biggest fan of reading long essays on Letterboxd, and this is definitely one of those - so if you'd like to read it on Medium with some photos and headers, check it out here: link.medium.com/QdG86fMem1
37. Yorum: yup....... this is the best movie that has ever been fucking made
38. Yorum: You are not ready for this film. I shit you not. Parasite is a tour de force. The hype is true. It is really a masterpiece in its own right.
40. Yorum: jessica, only child,
41. Yorum: Masterfully constructed and thoroughly compelling genre piece (effortlessly transitioning between familial drama, heist movie, satirical farce, subterranean horror) about the perverse and mutating symbiotic relationship of increasingly unequal, transactional class relationships, and who can and can't afford to be oblivious about the severe, violent material/psychic toll of capitalist accumulation. ("They say a ghost in the house brings wealth.") I think I ultimately admired this more than I felt it, it's clever and manufactured in a way that feels shiny and surface-level more than personal but I think it works in a movie in part about how those shiny surfaces distract us from the horrifying conditions that exist in order to sustain them. The seams of this system are ripping and it feels like Bong has channeled those economic precarities, indignities and anxieties into his own Rube Goldberg microcosm that asks how anyone could be surprised by a violent destination.
42. Yorum: when your circle small but y'all crazy
43. Yorum: i be in the club requesting jessica only child illinois chicago classmate of kim jin-mo he’s your cousin ding dong
44. Yorum: What the fuck did you think I would give this?
45. Yorum: Would’ve been even better if I could read
46. Yorum: My hands shake as I type these words but people didn't lie when they said this is one of the year's best movies. To me, 2019 is over and Parasite has freakin’ ended it all. You know that feeling when the movie is so good that when it ends, you feel as though a large part of your self has also departed from your body and eventually left behind a void inside you? That's exactly how I felt after watching Parasite. I will be picking this out of my teeth for weeks, maybe months, or even years to come. If you think you know what's coming or what Bong Joon-ho has in store for you? Maybe think again. Probably my favorite “ghost” story out there. Best to watch with your whole family#BongHive
48. Yorum: It's frustrating to watch movies by Bong Joon-ho. He comes close sometimes, but he never quite nails it when it comes to class consciousness.
49. Yorum: “i don’t trust anyone now”
50. Yorum: Best of the Decade. 
51. Yorum: Perhaps the most nuanced and merciless look at economic inequity and wealth corruption ever presented on film. Without question, Parasite is an uncompromising masterpiece that deserves every ounce of praise it receives.
53. Yorum: Parasite exhibits total technical and conceptual mastery of Bong’s favorite themes while simultaneously taking his oeuvre to new places. He seamlessly weaves together melodrama, satire, comedy and horror elements while ultimately centering deeply lovable and flawed characters. Anyone living in a capitalist democracy will find a lot to chew on here…
55. Yorum: so everyone is giving this a 5 because they've never seen a movie that depicts class conflict before this, right?
56. Yorum: “i just feel comfortable here. it feels like i was born here”
58. Yorum: yes, i am still thinking about the Parasite pizza delivery girl..
59. Yorum: and now i must live with knowing i was at cannes and could have attended the 2nd ever screening of best picture winner parasite but simply overslept
60. Yorum: Yeah I respect capitalism’s rights... capitalism’s rights to shut the fuck up
61. Yorum: watching this always makes me feel less guilty i used to steal starbucks gift cards as a child
62. Yorum: "She may look like a sheep, but inside, she's a fox."
63. Yorum: Masterfully made.
68. Yorum: best picture showcase: film #7
69. Yorum: edit: removed ratings, was posted at 2 1/2 stars
70. Yorum: "she always ate enough for two"
71. Yorum: If you thought Shoplifters needed the excitement of Crank: High Voltage, then boy do I have a film for you!
74. Yorum: me, yelling at the kims as i watch this for the third time, knowing full well what’s gonna happen to them: [timothee chalamet british accent] [bangs fist on wall] STOP THE FUCKING CHARADE!!!!!!!!!!! STOP IT!!!!!
75. Yorum: Capitalism is more insidious now than it ever was. There used to be a simple dynamic: merchants, manufacturers, and landowners exploited labourers to create profit. Inequality was obvious. But now, in an era of service sector dominance, liberalism as elitism, and class prefaced as theoretical, lines are blurred. Who are the exploited? *silence* Obviously, still the workers. But capitalism has convinced half the world that the rich suffer. Parasite is a Rorschach test. Some see only the base analogy and go "who is the real parasite?". Please don't be that person. Capitalism is inherently parasitic, not because rich and poor equally exploit each other, but because the rich exploit the poor and the poor also exploit the poor. This is the central thesis of Parasite, which is why it comes down to two working class families fighting each other, and the rich just allowing it through indifference. No longer are the rich just evil mill owners watching as poor people die in the street, they are now nice people like me and you, who just don't like to hear about bad things so do nothing as millions suffer in poverty. Same end result, just marketed better. If you can't understand why Ki-taek stabs Mr Park, you're proof that a century of capitalism has convinced us not to fight for change. Parasite is the perfect analogy for the friendly face of exploitation we now accept as reasonable. Please leave us to die, all we want is to dream of having a house as nice as yours. We won't fight Mr Park, in fact, we respect you for everything. Now let us give this film some awards so we won't feel bad for ignoring the message.
76. Yorum: "Hell, if i had all this money, I'd be nice too."
79. Yorum: “YOU KNOW WHAT KIND OF PLAN NEVER FAILS? NO PLAN. NO PLAN AT ALL. YOU KNOW WHY? BECAUSE LIFE CANNOT BE PLANNED.” – KI-TAEK
81. Yorum: "It's so metaphorical."
82. Yorum: This is a must-see film with great acting and fun, witty characters. I was intrigued the entire run time.
84. Yorum: Labyrinths, and therefore ghosts, manifested by the excessive designs of wealth for the impoverished to lose their bearings within. For them to not only become spatially disoriented by the bottomlessness of the structure's framework, but to become physically adrift to the point of brotherly pitilessness and self-consuming strong-arm tactics. Earnest derision delivered through the device of a "game" with no innocent players. Not a judgment but a predicament, as nobody is left without the burden of guilt or foul play in a system designed to oppose man against man for the sake of a cushy, pecuniary illusion of safety.
85. Yorum: Arclight. Hollywood. Perfect
86. Yorum: finally got over the one inch tall barrier of subtitles and that’s on cinematic masterpiece luv
87. Yorum: Let's get one thing straight: Parasite is phenomenal. It's a stunning, subtle, and immensely powerful piece on class warfare and the nature of the human condition. It's also a tense, funny, extremely entertaining film that didn't feel its length at all. Go into it without knowing anything if you can; it made my viewing experience all the more exciting.
88. Yorum: A few spare observations on another theater viewing:
89. Yorum: “They say ghosts in the house bring wealth”
90. Yorum: Instituting the "Gentleman's 4," in which I rate a film 4 Stars due to its objective and undeniable artistic and technical merit even though my personal enjoyment hovers from 3.25 to 3.50 Stars. It will be noted by the symbol *G4 at the beginning of the review. So...*G4
92. Yorum: damn that kid really has the worst birthdays huh
94. Yorum: If you don’t like Parasite keep that to yourself that shit is embarrassing
95. Yorum: Kim: hey whatcha got there 
96. Yorum: The Lot Roulette, Pick by Frank
98. Yorum: “I would say it did entertain me” -my mother
99. Yorum: My body was ready. My soul was ready... My mind was not ready.
100. Yorum: celebratory bong hits worldwide
101. Yorum: bro i cant read wtf are they saying bro
103. Yorum: Parasite was amazing on a first watch but on the second watch it was infinitely better. When the movie showed me the Park house for the first time in my second viewing, a really strange feeling washed over me. A feeling that it doesn't matter what either family accomplishes it's all going to have a tragic ending. Although this movie blends genres in a very entertaining way, it's still a bleak and bitter view of the world. The winding plot has seemingly no end and the morality of every single character is ambiguous. Everyone is so flawed but redeeming enough to root for them. Truly masterful storytelling, nothing is overused or held back from the audience. It's not a surprise a masterpiece like this has so much universal appeal and transcends its setting time period.
105. Yorum: "Well that was unexpected"
106. Yorum: Action! - The Sudden Shifts of Bong Joon-ho
107. Yorum: Body odor class warfare. The high class house is a film stage where social tension is acted in a series of seen/unseen gestures. Privilege is a matter of who is allowed to do either. Smell is key because it can’t be play acted in the social theatre. Our daily horror is becoming a ghost. As often with Bong what is so effective is how everything is build into the film machinery as cinema apparatus is just another instance of the same system.
108. Yorum: many thanks to the online dictionary, who helped write part of this review
109. Yorum: Roses are red
110. Yorum: I thought there was gonna be like an anus worms type of Parasite in this but it was good anyway.
111. Yorum: So when can we expect the bad Hollywoood remake that totally misses the point of the original?
112. Yorum: holy shit that left me jaw dropped for a solid 30 minutes
113. Yorum: “If you make a plan, life never works out that way. With no plan, nothing can go wrong.”
115. Yorum: You can never escape your smell. Maybe, you think, if you make a lot of money, and buy that big house, those people won’t notice; the money will wash it away. That’s the hope you cling to.
116. Yorum: I was going to call this the best movie I've seen this year, but honestly it might be the best movie I've ever seen in my whole life
119. Yorum: how am i supposed to fall asleep after witnessing possibly one of the best movies to ever be crafted ?
120. Yorum: Just rewatched this timeless, best decade-ender film of the 2010s along with a friend of mine, who began venturing into Asian cinema for the first time today. Parasite is a Korean dramedy thriller film tackling class division by juxtaposing the lives of the affluent Park family and the penurious Kim family. Director Bong Joon-ho has been criticizing the growing social class divide in South Korea with his previous films and, despite being his recently released film, Parasite is probably the most critical, cut-throat film of his that perfectly captures the attention of his audience by combining comedy and thriller, while simultaneously showing the harsh realities of being in the South Korean working class. The storytelling, directorship, pacing, and cinematography blended in such a way that every scene becomes either emotionally appalling or stirring in its finest. Its message and symbolism has never been as relevant as today, considering that the rich can afford to rent private islands to escape the pandemic while the poor are getting eviction and unemployment notices. Parasite proved that even relatively low-budget films, when executed perfectly, can win prestigious awards, and opened doors for not just Asian, but international cinema in general, that the Westerners, just like my friend, can appreciate cinema beyond the English language when they overcome that one-inch tall barrier that is the subtitles. While I do think that Bong Joon-ho produced better films than this one, Parasite will remain as his magnus opus that will be talked and analyzed for decades to come.
121. Yorum: never have i ever been so wrong about what i thought a film was going to be about... my mind is still absolutely blown as i'm writing this two days after my viewing. bong joon-ho completely lures in his audience, making us feel connected to these characters even if we don't have anything in common with them all the way until the very last frame.
123. Yorum: this movie will always be the best thing ever happened to myself as a cinephile
125. Yorum: Genuinely thought this was supposed to be a horror movie when I put it on!💀 I was waiting for some kinda monster to show up!😭
126. Yorum: Parasite is the film of the decade. Not because it's the best (but it's in contention), but because it so perfectly defines the world as it exists right now. Capitalism has made us all parasites, as worker solidarity is crushed beyond hope beneath the veneer of consumerism and individualism. The workers now want to be capitalists and work within the system, not dismantle it. The rich people in Parasite may not do anything explicitly bad but society arbitrarily chooses to allow their wealth to let them avoid consequences and troubles, which is why we cannot and should not side with them. Rich people can afford to be nice, that doesn't mean we have to be.
129. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho always manages to create films that somehow define genres and exist in a realm of their own. Parasite is no exception.
131. Yorum: yup there’s no better way to be spending my 21st birthday than with my favourite film of all time <3
132. Yorum: when i say eat the rich, the rich mom from parasite is excluded from that narrative
133. Yorum: Last night, I watched a group of beautiful Asian people get on stage at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles and accept the most prestigious award that the American entertainment industry can bestow on a piece of art.
134. Yorum: Just unbelievable.  It’s been a long, long time since I’ve felt so wholly gripped by a film from beginning to end.  Jesus Christ, it’s good.
137. Yorum: the tent won’t leak, it’s american.
138. Yorum: i laughed, i cried (a number of times), i sweat, i danced, i got *smiles* shot, i ate, and... i had many epiphanies
139. Yorum: Letterboxd Season Challenge 19-20
140. Yorum: okay i’m daring literally any other film to be as good as this
141. Yorum: holy fucking shit
142. Yorum: America needs to say fuck off to “genre” and get on board with Korean style tonal shifts. Entire runtime was absolutely searing.
145. Yorum: So much to dissect. So much I can't say without spoilers. Don't watch trailers, don't read descriptions, just watch the movie. It's the perfect storm that somehow strikes a balance between mainstream/accessible and profound/layered. I love it so much.
146. Yorum: Watched it in Korean without English subtitles. 
147. Yorum: i actually will never get over how fucking good this is
149. Yorum: it took rewatching this to realize how iconic (at least for me) so much of it has already become as a part of the cinematic landscape. a symphony of meaning. and so much funnier than even the people who think it's funny give it credit for.
150. Yorum: call me by your name wishes to have such an iconic peach scene as this
151. Yorum: I can’t believe I ever liked this movie, what was I thinking?
152. Yorum: - “It’s a chimpanzee, right?”
153. Yorum: Joon Ho’s genius mixture of genres comes from an ancient line of very specific auteurs. The most relevant name that came to my mind is Youssef Chahine, in particular Cairo Station (1958), where the treatment of genres followed a similar pacing and structure until culminating with one of the most spectacular effects of cognitive dissonance ever displayed in celluloid, and the genre shifting is activated with a plot point. This essay constitutes a social satire through dark comedy eyes about marginalization of social classes, social status discrimination and one of the most toxic ideas that has predominated in the highest spheres of power and superficial ideologies: that balance is restored through violence.
154. Yorum: kinda crazy how this has been one of the most hyped up films in the last couple years by both critics and audiences and it still managed to blow my expectations out the water. brilliant.
155. Yorum: and its gonna do it for me every time
157. Yorum: watched the black and white cut and it is SO beautiful and even more haunting let me tell you!!!! it’s so metaphorical!!!! it’s REALLY strong!!!! i’m deadly serious!!!!
158. Yorum: Criterion Collection Spine #1054
159. Yorum: so right after graduating a v snooty college, i was homeless for two months. i had some promising job interviews but nothing lined up yet, and one of my friends was gonna let me move in with her once she got her current roommate situation sorted out, but that wouldn’t be until September. so i was in full couch surfing panic mode
160. Yorum: Turn on the lights and watch the roaches scamper away, under the sink and into the sewers, scrambling for car keys cursing yelling toppling over chairs and tables and decorations and the cello in a frenzy. Calling this movie a 'wild ride' would be an understatement, it's free falling into madness. If you know Bong you'd know nothing develops the way you expect them to. I'm trying my best to not spoil anything so if I have to leave one takeaway for this review it's that Bong's signature dropkick is missing, the drunkard was right there, two times, no drop kick, I don't know who to trust anymore.
161. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho just did that.
162. Yorum: how this got no oscar nominations in the acting categories is beyond me
164. Yorum: **A MASTERPIECE WINS THE OSCAR AWARD FOR THE BEST PICTURE**
165. Yorum: Rewatching this multilayered record-breaking monster of a film in theaters post-Oscar win with a group of occasional movie goers, my mom included, who might’ve not seen it otherwise was a treat. I noticed a few subtleties I didn’t catch the first time and was able to breathe a little knowing where it was headed. I left the theater as I did my first watch, extremely satisfied with the gem I had just seen, but powerless to the realization of what that fourth wall-breaking last shot meant for not only the story and it’s characters but us the viewer as well. My parasitic ass needs a drink.
166. Yorum: I hate how brilliant this movie is. Bye.
167. Yorum: a masterpiece in every sense of the word
168. Yorum: If there is one word to describe Parasite, it would be “miraculous.” It goes beyond the boundaries of genre, language, and culture to deliver a story that anybody around the world could relate to even though it is rooted deeply in South Korean society. I’ve only watched two movies from Bong Joon-ho and it’s enough for me to label him a master of the craft. The way he shifts humor to horror and optimism to despair is effortlessly seamless. It’s hard to pull off a story when the tone shifts fluidly without conflicting the audience, but Parasite does it flawlessly. 
170. Yorum: PARASITE is a total and utter knockout of a masterwork from Bong Joon-ho!! Darkly comedic, emotionally wrought, socially relevant & absolutely twisted. Go in as blind as humanly possible. Bong better win all of the awards because I have no earthly idea what will even be able to compete with this. Constantly evolving with biting satire, gripping tension and drama, it culminates in a stirring climax that had me shouting up on the rooftops how much I love cinema!!! It’s a flawless work of art.
171. Yorum: Parasite is structured like a hill: the first act is an incredible trek upward toward the light, toward riches, toward reclaiming a sense of humanity as defined by financial stability and self-reliance. there is joy, there is quirk, there is enough air to breathe to allow for laughter and mischief.
172. Yorum: think of the greatest heist/scam movies, movies about working class and unemployment and slow-burning thrillers but much much better.
173. Yorum: The most original film I’ve seen in a very long time
174. Yorum: Now that I've watched Parasite (2019), Burning (2018), and Oldboy (2013), I guess you could say I'm somewhat of a Korean cinema expert.
175. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's satirical black comedy thriller is an ingeniously well-crafted film that has a dim view of contemporary society and an unconventional approach in its atmospherics. It warrants the praise it's received including winning the Palme d'Or at the 72nd annual Cannes Film Festival as well as being selected as the South Korean admission for the best international film at the 92nd Academy Awards.
176. Yorum: Pretty toothless imo, the kind of satire intended to feel incisive without actually offending those at the centre of its ostensible target. Content to gently mock the obliviousness of the rich without actually digging into the systemic abuses their existence allows beyond obvious acts of little dehumanisation. Or, at least, I don't think Bong really pulls off what's maybe supposed to be here, so lightly does he connect the cannibalisation of the working class to the rich family above them that it feels like he's letting that family off the hook. There are no real characters here, just sketches that Bong and co allow to battle with such precise direction and strong humour that the film around them appears to actually slice open the facade it mocks without ever really doing so. When every character is equally thin, letting the ones up top remain simply foolish instead of malicious on any level feels both cowardly and lazy. Maybe that's the kind of satire that allows a class comedy to win top prize at the most prestigious film festival in the world, and maybe I wouldn't be so harsh on this if it wasn't presented in a semi-arthouse context (with a BS, audience-implicating look to the camera). If this was made as a clear lark by some random genre-head and it premiered at Fantastic Fest or whatever, I'd probably give it more slack. But it's not, it's made by one of the most respected international filmmakers currently working, one who has enough recognition to actually get real play in English-language countries. So it feels like a cop-out, which made it feel tiresome and a bit boring.
177. Yorum: In Parasite, many scenes are characterized by the presence of stairs going up and down: from those of the splendid villa of the rich Park family, to the incredibly long stairways that surround the city of Seoul, and which lead up to the squalid and smelly neighborhood where the proletarian Kims live. Bong Joon-ho's film is the story of a social opposition and the difficulties that people belonging to the lower classes have to face in trying to improve their condition. Often, in fact, those who find themselves at the bottom of the "ladder" desperately try to move up the the steps of society, so as to redeem the misery of their original situation. Nevertheless, those with great wealth and a high social position tend to neglect the reality of the weaker sections of the population and such disregard comes at a cost. The South Korean director weaves these themes together in an ironic and grotesque introduction, which however later gives way to more dramatic and disturbing tones. The shift in register is unsettling, but inserted in a very natural way into the narrative, thanks to a masterful writing and direction, and to the perfect performances by an ensemble cast.
178. Yorum: "The plan keeps coming up again
179. Yorum: Despite all challenges, a historic moment finally came into fruition exactly one year ago today. Out of the 9 films nominated in the Best Picture category at the 92nd Academy Awards, only 1 was Asian. The odds were generally always stacked against films with characters speaking a language that isn’t English, because not everyone can understand a language beyond that and their native one and the general public isn’t fond of subtitles. I remember rooting for this film while I was watching the livestream of the event and thought that Best International Feature Film is the last award it can get, as for the entire 92-year history of the Academy has no non-English film ever won the coveted Best Picture. I recall rooting for Jojo Rabbit because let’s face it, the Academy sure loves giving feel-good movies that award, or 1917 because of its divine one-take effect that bewildered me in theaters–a place that I miss, by the way. Worst case scenario, my least-liked nominated film, Joker, will win. My lack of confidence for Parasite winning isn’t backed by anything, as statistically speaking, before it, the other ten non-English language films that were ever nominated in this category failed to snatch the award, and that includes Life is Beautiful and Roma, two films that completely shattered me in my first watch. But then, the winner was announced and it was indeed Parasite, and I swear that was the last good thing that ever happened in 2020. 
180. Yorum: 2019 Releases Ranked-HERE
183. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned."
184. Yorum: So fucking good.
185. Yorum: It disappoints me that so many people adore this movie. I don’t want to be a discordant opinion — especially because I stand in the totally opposite camp. It’s not as though I simply didn’t care for Parasite: I think it’s a gross failure.
186. Yorum: Well now. I should have known—Once again I’ve been Bong Joon-Ho'ed.
187. Yorum: “Do you know the plan that never fails? The plan is to have absolutely no plan.” - The Father
188. Yorum: I was so worried I wouldn’t get to see this again in theaters. I gotta say, despite varying outcomes, the net skull durability in this film is astounding.
189. Yorum: mentally i'm in that basement.
190. Yorum: ‘Man is the only animal which esteems itself rich in proportion to the number and voracity of its parasites.’
191. Yorum: Perhaps the greatest aspect of this masterpiece, aside from the immense writing, symbolism, performances and gripping plot, is Joon-ho’s visual storytelling. Little details like when the family rushes back to their household during the flood, and the camera pans out to show the family descending down flights of stairs. Or the end shot of the camera transitioning from the window downwards, symbolizing us going back to their reality. Showing how near impossible it is to escape the system constantly dragging you down. You could write a whole dissertation on the visual language alone. Probably his magnum opus as far as tackling classism, and the dichotomy between the elite and the less fortunate. An experience that keeps giving on each rewatch.
192. Yorum: maybe the real parasite was the rich people we killed along the way ❤
193. Yorum: The lower-right region of a painting is called the 'schizophrenia zone'.
196. Yorum: Hits from the Boooong 🪨
197. Yorum: She's rich, but still nice.
198. Yorum: modeling the plans for my next birthday party after this movie
199. Yorum: with my third viewing i feel like i was analysing it more than just enjoying it. there’s so much i never noticed before, but i think the thing that made me the most upset was the fact that the tent “from the US” was so much more durable than the homes of the working class koreans.
200. Yorum: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
201. Yorum: a dog-eat-dog portrait drawn by those with all the leashes on their hand; true freedom is impossible, and a bleak cinematic worldview is sharpened not as a tool to denounce the rich, but as a general half-hearted lament about the world at play. for all the idiosyncrasies every member of the rich park family shows, there's an unwavering feeling that bong joon-ho doesn't wish to name names, doesn't wish to implicate anyone in particular about the sort of people he's "critiquing" in the movie. the entire rich-poor class consciousness farce is a binary structure that he (and i hate to say this because i've always known him to be quite the daring wunderkind*) hides behind. i've had my thoughts about bong as a filmmaker, someone who's certainly interested in the evils of capitalism and class structures, and with my recent rewatch of the much-revered Parasite, i feel as if i've gained a clearer mind on what his movies mean to me.
202. Yorum: Just watched the B&W version and let’s just say that there’s something more unsettling in this than its colored counterpart. Its impact is still relevant and impactful as ever in monochrome, nonetheless. 
203. Yorum: sicko mode Howards End
204. Yorum: Parasite is, in no uncertain terms, fucking great. It's funny and suspenseful and deeply powerful. It's genuinely creative and unpredictable in a way that we don't often see, and it has an acute understanding of the physical and emotional boundaries of social class. More than anything, it is at its core concerned with human beings, specifically families, and the ways in which they navigate, construct, and even break down those boundaries. Empathy is of the utmost importance in this story.
205. Yorum: A masterwork of first-rate storytelling that presents distinguished filmmaker Bong Joon-ho at the apex of his craft, Parasite is a tale of two families at extreme ends of class spectrum and the chain of events that are set into motion when their paths collide. Crafted with vigour & told with confidence, the film offers a cleverly layered & defiantly eclectic extravaganza that will have you laughing at one moment & then questioning that laughter the next.
206. Yorum: once you overcome the one-inch tall barrier of subtitles you will be introduced to so many more amazing films period nothing left to say
207. Yorum: The Bong Touch (TM) = Laugh out loud comedy + recoiling in horror at man's indecency to man + awe at the cinematic dance, the inspired choreography between camera, actors and editing.
211. Yorum: Me when Lee Sun-kyun showed up in the film: looking for a vulgar and sexy man to meet. 
212. Yorum: It may take a while to get going, but once it does, Parasite gives you a witty yet morbid story with many thematic layers to uncover, a tonne of unpredictable twists, great direction of camera shots and plenty to chew on when it comes to the poor and rich’s relationship with the capitalist system that governs their entire lives. No individual here is the ‘parasite’. The world itself is.
213. Yorum: Grade: MASTERPIECE (5 out of 5)
214. Yorum: i’ve finally done it! i’ve finally watched parasite! why has it took me so long? who knows…but i’ve done it! 
215. Yorum: "Do you know what kind of plan never fails?"
218. Yorum: For the first year of my lifetime, the best picture winner was actually the best film of the year. They’ll blow it next year.
219. Yorum: My socks have been blown off. 
220. Yorum: a masterclass in every possible way
222. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho, the master of cinematic metaphor, delivers a film of and for our times with Parasite. It is a masterwork, the first film in years that is obviously a future classic after just one watch. It is tense and unexpected, but beyond satisfying in payoff. As a satire, Parasite is about the interactions of the classes. The comedy is perfectly balanced with a nuance of how class functions in the era of consumerism within service sector countries. Despite its huge international success, Parasite feels so beautifully uncompromised in its Korean flavour, with a violent genre-crossing streak that Hollywood rarely aims for and Korean cinema excels in. Parasite is not Bong Joon-ho's best film, nor the one that most captures my heart. But it is just wonderful, and the best kind of cinema.
223. Yorum: i know for a fact that i could build their house on minecraft
224. Yorum: and that's HISTORY
225. Yorum: James said he wanted to show me this movie today "even though it's not a birthday movie" when there's CLEARLY a birthday party scene? How did he forgor
227. Yorum: One of the most well-deserved Oscars ever, this is such a brilliant piece of art.
229. Yorum: “All you’ll have to do... is walk up the stairs.”
230. Yorum: parasite isn’t a bong joon-ho film, he was a vessel for God on that set. Why he chose him I don’t know but it’s not my place to question it
231. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned”
232. Yorum: Each of us have to learn how to take care of themselves, that's the big lesson from this movie.If we don't do that, then we became parasites
233. Yorum: trying to live one more day in spite of everything. the losses that capitalism leaves us with are unfathomable, often to the extent that we lose hope. we are broken down, numbed to the horrors of systematic state oppression and class divide. even now, after all the trauma that these people go through, there is still that desperation for the aesthetic of richness, the false images of a life positioned above suffering. a deeply heartbreaking movie. excited to cover this in full next month for a publication I’ve never worked for before.
235. Yorum: Not what I was expecting at all but they ate, this movie fucking slaps.
236. Yorum: Discussed HERE
237. Yorum: Wow I’ve seen every best picture winner :)
238. Yorum: Ki-taek: "They are rich but still nice."
239. Yorum: They did it, baby!!! INFILTRATION COMPLETED - They got the golden rocks!!!!!!!!!
240. Yorum: Everybody please stand for the national anthem
241. Yorum: what’s better than watching parasite? watching parasite while lucas hedges sits on the edge of his seat two rows in front of you while gently playing with his hands the entire time.
242. Yorum: im ngl i’m currently typing this in the austin house basement too Lol!
243. Yorum: Not only my favorite of TIFF, but my favorite for the year. This was an immensely enjoyable ride from start to finish. It's got comedy, it's got mystery, its got thrills, and its got heart.
244. Yorum: What. A. Masterpiece.
245. Yorum: all i’m saying is if this doesn’t win best picture on sunday i’m sure theres a rich academy member whose child needs tutoring and i am for hire
246. Yorum: brilliant, captivating, creative, incredible. this film was a complete masterpiece and I am so happy I was able to see it unfold on the big screen. bong joon-ho creates a world so mesmerizing, you just have to witness it yourself. going in completely blind with no expectations looming over my shoulder was such a good idea and I am just so lost in awe for this wonderful creation. best film of the year, mark my words!!!
248. Yorum: racing hearts soaked in grass stains and peach fuzz; parasite moulds pulses to blood stains to sticky, burning hot sauce sachets. sunlight sweats across floorboards and oozes to black and back. expect to laugh, then gasp, then feel your veins ignite. a film that felt my soul beat in my chest, reached inside, twisted my mind to pools of reddish honey, and stole a part of me for itself.
250. Yorum: Wild that bong joon-ho listened to aristocrat by poppy and turned it into a film
251. Yorum: For some reason this movie didn't find its way into my town's theatre, so I had to wait until a trip to munich finally made it possible to do what was long overdue. Aaaaaaaaaaaaaand............ Bing Bang Bong...that was a quick watch. Wanted to immediatly see it again, which wasn't possible for financial and time porpuses. So here's a little poem/rap, that's hopefully ambiguous enough to not give anything away:
252. Yorum: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
253. Yorum: (Black and White Version)
254. Yorum: Catching the Oscar runner ups with my mom as we head towards the Academy Awards.
255. Yorum: ↓ English version below ↓
256. Yorum: This hits different when you're going full self-isolation mode...
257. Yorum: Nothing will ever top that peach/hot sauce scene
259. Yorum: Parasite. The behemoth. The film I’ve put off watching since I’ve had a Letterboxd account as I was afraid all of the hype and prestige surrounding this film would hamper my viewing experience. How could a film possibly live up to all of these expectations?
262. Yorum: This is one of the best crafted movies of all time. I urge everyone to watch it at least a 2nd time. The amount of foreshadowing, symbolism and references throughout the film is mindblowing. The peach fuzz/hot sauce bloody napkin scene is seriously the most incredible things I’ve ever watched... ahhh i love movies!!!
263. Yorum: I’m absolutely blown away. 
264. Yorum: CANNES 2019
265. Yorum: That movie was the reason why I passed my school test in biology
266. Yorum: wish choi woo-shik would hold me like he holds that rock 😔
267. Yorum: Leave your expectations at the door and believe the hype. After taking home top honors at both Cannes and Sydney Film Festival, my anticipation and expectations for Parasite were at an all time high, to the point that I was worried I had set myself up for disappointment.
268. Yorum: Formally this is certainly accomplished. It makes great use of its spaces, particularly the elegantly minimalistic home that the poor family scurry around in. The choreography in these sequences is a dizzying flurry of activity, both lithe and blunt (a body is noiselessly kicked at the top of the stairs but lands with a sickening crunch below). But these images are so rigidly contrived to conform to the film’s message that they don’t ever feel revelatory, they feel hollow. 
269. Yorum: Today we lost an incredible actor who was destroyed by an entity that no one can do a damn thing about. Good-bye Lee Sun-kyun and thank you 💔
270. Yorum: if the lack of movies released this year means that parasite gets nominated again at the oscars next year then so be it
272. Yorum: "Kip, I reckon... you know a lot about... cyberspace? You ever come across anything... like time travel?"
274. Yorum: wow... what a movie. gorgeously shot, amazing score, incredible script, acting, & direction. Bong Joon-ho is clearly in complete/masterful control of his craft. 
275. Yorum: this movie is probably better than your favorite movie.
276. Yorum: it’s been a year 💔
277. Yorum: I still need to watch Lighthouse but currently this is my new favorite movie of the year. 2/3 of the movie I’m curious towards why this movie is considered a masterpiece or has a 4.5 rating on letterbox. It’s a good movie through and through but not until we get to the last third does it become close to a masterpiece. That’s when everything comes together.
278. Yorum: Director Bong Joon Ho has made a diverse set of films from the true police procedural saga "Memories of Murder" to the sci-fi premise of people smooshed in on a futuristic train after the world freezes over in "Snowpiercer," and in-between his most subtle and compelling "Mother" about an elder woman who will do anything to prove her son is innocent of a crime, driving forward on her quest until it breaks her sanity. I've had my digest of healthy admiration but I had not yet loved a single one by Joon Ho, all tainted by a third act gratuitous complication or an intrinsic detail that's meted out too vague or choice of visuals not cogent enough when some kind of virtuosity is most needed.
279. Yorum: This is for Trump you big fat white nasty smelling fat bitch why you took me off the motherfuckin schedule with your trifflin dirty white racist ass you big fat bitch oompa loompa body ass bitch I'm coming up there
280. Yorum: This doesn’t even need a review, It’s Parasite.
281. Yorum: Going to start recommending this to people who haven’t seen it yet by saying “it’s fun for the whole family” and then I wait for them to sue me
282. Yorum: 🦠🦠🦠 FOUR TIME ACADEMY AWARD WINNING FILM PARASITE!!!!!!!!!!
283. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho's Parasite is a fantastic film that was also the first movie I ever reviewed here on Letterboxd. I adore this film and my first review of it helped me become better as a writer. After all my first review was shorter and not really in depth but now, I try my best to really explain why a film works or why it doesn't. I don't consider myself a fantastic critic especially since I have seen plenty of far better writers and critics than me here on Letterboxd but I am happy people like my reviews. So, since it's my 2-year anniversary here on Letterboxd I wanted to go back to Parasite and explain why it's such a great film in more depth.
284. Yorum: "Jessica, only child, Illinois, Chicago."
285. Yorum: My dad said he still prefers The Irishman so I too am now looking for a new family
287. Yorum: The perfect representation of “They had us in the first half, not gonna lie”.
290. Yorum: | BEST MOVIE OF THE YEAR |
292. Yorum: The class critique in Bong Joon-Ho's Snowpiercer had all the subtlety of an axe fight. Parasite isn’t quite that blunt, but it isn’t subtle either (hatchets are eventually involved). The genius is in the way the movie’s little details and character touches lead to an absolutely bonkers climax—after a shocking twist I won’t reveal—that nevertheless feels inevitable.
294. Yorum: “Rich people are naive. No resentments. No creases on them.”
295. Yorum: extraemily and squeex collabing in the mizkif house
296. Yorum: So far the only good thing to happen in 2020 was that this movie won Best Picture.
300. Yorum: listen i know i'm very late to the party so please don't make fun of me but HOLY SHIT THIS IS GOOD
301. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho's newest film isn't messing,
302. Yorum: I really enjoyed this movie. It has basically everything going for it-- violence, sex, knives, rocks, rich people, and more. My only point of contention lies in the lack of a strong, marketable comedic relief mascot. For example, why weren't the minions in this movie? Minions are funny. Banana hahahahaha.
303. Yorum: Showed Parasite to a friend of mine and he was completely freaking out during the 'bunker revelation' scene. On the other hand, so was I, even while knowing what was gonna happen.
304. Yorum: Such an excellent exploration of the darker parts of capitalism and the things people will do for paper, it's slightly ironic that I watched this on a plane but that's besides the point.
305. Yorum: Parasite does everything right.
306. Yorum: This probably wasn't the best movie to watch on a long car ride where I was already self conscious about how I smell.
307. Yorum: I'm actually so sad knowing the last 4 years I could've had this movie in my life 😭 like why did it take me so long to see this! Added to my favorites
308. Yorum: Ok but that ram-dom sounds fucking great and I need to eat it now
309. Yorum: "Parasite" has once again wormed its way under my skin and clawed into every part of me with its sharp teeth leeching and sucking every last drop of blood. We follow the Kims, an impoverished family bred on soot, dirt and acrid subterranean odor as they live in a dingy dilapidated semi-basement apartment where the sunlight only manages to leak in through their tiny window placed near the ceiling. One day, when the opportunity comes knocking at their door – as their eldest son, Ki-woo lands a tutoring gig for the teenage daughter of the Park family, cloistered in an ultra-modern mansion situated in the affluent, upper side of town – the Kim family seize it with a deliciously devious scheme. Soon after a symbiotic relationship has been established between the two families, an unexpected chain of events occurs, which threatens to disturb the Kims’ newfound comfort.
310. Yorum: Does Parasite live up to the hype ? 100% yes. Wow, what a movie!
311. Yorum: want the pizza girl to kiss me
313. Yorum: Ah shit here we go again
315. Yorum: NYC apartment listings be like “Gorgeous cozy dank fixer upper studio apartment in a basement. No kitchen but the people above have a fridge if you’re feeling risky. Will have to share the space with a creepy smelly squatter. Think of him as a roommate for company! This is a rare find and will sell FAST! $5K a month. No utilities included”
316. Yorum: happy new year!! (i have 14 minutes until midnight still but semantics). parasite winning best picture was surely the peak of 2020 so it only feels appropriate to close out the year with it as well
317. Yorum: Hey mom can me and my friends go out tomorrow and eat the rich? The academy already said it was ok
318. Yorum: i spent my rewatch of this trying to decide which acting performance i thought was the best and eventually decided there was absolutely no way for me to choose. just a perfect ensemble where every character seemed completely lived-in. good lord what a movie
319. Yorum: take me back to the parasite oscars hype. when i tell you that era was the closest we’ve ever been to world peace…
320. Yorum: Parasite is life, Parasite is love
321. Yorum: Given the justifiable hype that has followed Bong Joon-Ho's coruscating social satire, I managed to avoid knowing too much about it, just the bare bones: a poor family infiltrates a rich one and things get dark. Going in, you probably think you know what exactly what the title alludes to and you wouldn't be wrong exactly, but it's a smarter and more opaque film than that. Unlike a lot of releases from 2019 - the year of societal cannibalism - it's not a straightforward story of the poor eating the rich. It cuts both ways: the Parks are representative of a parasitical strain at the top of the pile, exploiting economic division to maintain their privilege, as much as Kim's family are emblematic of rapacious bottom feeders. Bong has the whole stinking system in his sights.
322. Yorum: "Not 'rich, but still nice.' She's nice because she's rich. Hell, if I had all this money. I'd be nice, too!" - Chung-sook,
323. Yorum: feelin peachy
324. Yorum: call me crazy, but i think you should be allowed to cut off anyone who gives this movie less than the 5 stars it deserves. you don’t need that kind of toxic behavior in your life
326. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all."
327. Yorum: "Parasite" is an exceptional cinematic masterpiece that defies genre boundaries and leaves an indelible mark on the viewer's mind. Bong Joon-ho's direction is a tour de force, seamlessly weaving a tale of social satire, suspense, and dark humor into a gripping narrative.
328. Yorum: "They say a ghost in the house brings wealth. Actually, the money's been good recently."
329. Yorum: One of the greatest thrillers ever put to screen. Masterfully portraying the social scale in terms of wealth. Its twist is so abrupt and outrageous, it creates a complete shift in tone for the remainder of the film. Bong Joon-Ho has produced a masterpiece with this one.
330. Yorum: I only have one thing left to say:
331. Yorum: Words fail to measure accurately and deeply enough the full mastery of narrative structured storytelling to film that is the seminal, genre defying, soulful and universal, best film of the last decade, best film of the 2010s period, one of the films ever made, magnum opus of the tallest order, Parasite. It doesn’t get better than this movie. I saw this film four times in theaters at the time of its release in 2019 and immediately was besotted by it and still am to this day. I’ve seen it countless other times including twice before writing this now. Parasite exists as a rare bird, flawless in execution and completely immaculate and spellbinding in structure and rendering. Not a moment isn’t perfection. Every single performance transcends language barriers, the full measure of each individual captured in their essence and physicality, cadence and inner demeanor revealed and or hidden based on any given circumstance, the dialogue read through subtitles is a delicious treat to analyze the specificity of the words used in this already full cooked and wonderful five course meal of a movie. This is easily the best foreign language film ever made. I would recommend this movie to anyone, including people who only casually watch movies. This is the cream of the crop in every regard. Bong Joon Ho take a bow. You are a titan of cinema. You are one of the greatest to ever craft film. What a time to be alive and to be present as your works are released. This is a monumental achievement in every capacity from directing to writing, production design to editing, a marvelous movie. The film was nominated for 6 Academy Awards including: Best Editing and Best Production Design and it won 4 Oscars for Best International Feature, Best Screenplay, Best Directing and Best Picture. That alone is a testimony to everything I am already emphasizing. This movie just that incredible that it would win the Oscar for Best Picture on top of winning Best International Feature. Let alone also wining Best Director and Best Screenplay. The movie is so incredible it transcends language barriers. This movie better never be remade, it already is a perfect movie for audiences across the world, no need to reimagine what already was rendered flawlessly. The picture is always engaging, it’s also flat out hilarious consistently, it’s truly riveting, astoundingly shocking, surprising, taut, suspenseful, gut wrenching, poetic and deeply prophetic analyzing the wealth inequalities and social disparities in society in ways that are unmistakably brilliant and inspiringly indelible visually and narratively. This movie takes my breath away, it engulfs me in a time and space beyond my own, yet completely taking me there and paints fully realized complex, surprisingly likable regardless of immoral acts and riveting characters to discover and dissect. The themes of the piece staggeringly layered and resonating on every level as supreme truth. They can and should and probably will teach film study classes highlighting this movie specifically. To even begin to feel like I address with specificity the brilliance entailed in this picture for me would be analyzing the characters and what they mean to the overall narrative and what numerous things the picture is reflecting on directly and confidently through them as the plot unfolds. Cho Yeo-jeong as Yeon Kyo portrays an ignorant vapid pompous one percent housewife in such a riveting way, met with a dense and deeply rich screenplay, the character an avatar for all that is wrong in societies where individuals learn the rules of the look and the presentation of laudable living but never got the memo about the inner substance that should be on display and at the root of everything the bloomed externally into fruition around it. The way she enters the movie by needing to be alerted back into conciseness is such a brilliant choice, as this character internally is a mess of a person who is always gullibly available to placate this idea that she isn’t good enough to begin with. A seminal statement of the human condition and it’s need to showcase perfection where it doesn’t actually exist. A scream in the dark from the collective when for far too long and with no resolution in sight, misaligned individuals have dominated in the game of haves and the have nots, disdainfully ignorant to the greater good or the plight existing for so many right outside their carefully crafted exuberance. The inner life of her and her husband revealing a lack of morality and substance, ignorance and feigned moral superiority just illusions that the lucky can bask in falsely signifying significance in a decaying culture where nothing actually matters. The husband and man of the house, Dong Ik played wonderfully by the late Lee Sun-kyun brilliantly showcases the lack of a man with everything, the juxtaposition startling; he doesn’t truly love his wife and he demands his workers do belittling jobs because they are being paid handsomely for it. The beginning and end of it all is just money to him. The stank of poverty, a real permeating stench, also unabiding to his very core being, his disdain and superiority complex in every measure found in his externalized riches, ignorant to the fact of his wife’s lack of substance or his own as he meanders around the narrative judging and shaming everything that he deems appropriately placed there but in private sometimes being turned on and gratified by those very same things. A human action and way of being that is universal and masked, he and his wife overly emphasis casual sex or drug use as deplorable in public and to themselves but actually deeply long for both things internally. The facade and illusion of grand exuberance and the behavior that the world finds to be simpatico to that lifestyle known to all that desire it, cutting themselves off from their primal urges to facilitate a facade of specificity and specialness that in and of itself is also an illusion. Their son is clearly just a simple child and every emphasis placed on him comes from a deeper place and need from both characters to project greatness onto their experience in order to thrive, including misplaced greatness on their son. The fact on an energetic level that these souls demand these constructs of being is why they are placed in these circumstances in their walking life to begin with. For most people the world can when it feels like it emphasis one’s failings, be a very negative place. The way that life has unfolded for Chung Sook, brilliantly played by Jang Hye-jin, subtly showcased in photos and medals and her behavior when she’s allowed to relax and showcase her gifts, an athlete of merit who couldn’t find a place in the world passed a certain age, a harsh reality that makes her feel bad all the time. Bitterness and stagnation becoming the default mood for her and her husband, the magnetic and prolific Song Kang-ho as Ki Taek. Through expository dialogue in passing we learn he is a man of jovial spirits who ventured into so many odd jobs in life fueled by his childlike spirit, and none of them worked out. He has now ultimately succumb to the notion that corruption is what leads to profit and that everything is pointless and irrelevant ultimately. Another way of being that hinders this entire family at its core. His brilliant speech to his son about why one should never have a plan in life is chilling to the bone as he is analyzing that no deed good or bad even matters in the world. He is a testimony to the grave unprocessed trauma and negativity inside millions if not billions of individuals, unknowingly blocking blessings and living in deep resentment for the other who lives in contentment and disdain and literal disgust for him and anyone else in misfortune for the majority of their life. The smell just sticks to them, an essence showcasing someone’s lack fundamentally, an internal miswiring exposed and evident in their life and lack of abundance externally. This indignity, a persons failure unknowingly caused by their own inner perspectives and motivations, exposed redundantly in exposition emphasized in the narrative and cause for murder at the end of the picture. Very earned and very iconically designed and executed. Anyone who misses the point as to why he kills his boss is also subtly ignoring the brimming tension and exposure to the fundamental disdain the one percent has for everyone else, a cathartic act in the third act that summates the consequence of these inevitable collisions internally that all humans go through when dealing with this topic of success or failure in life experiences. It’s almost as if to say metaphorically speaking life’s report card comes due for all individuals and the awareness that one has over their own life and the perspective other people place on them is enough to drive extreme emotions and pathos to the forefront in any individual. In the midst of these two characters lives and the fostering of this defeatist environment are my two favorite characters in the entire narrative, the ruthless and seemingly maniacal brother and sister duo of Ki Woo and Ki Jung played brilliantly and unforgettably by Choi-Woo sik and Park So-dam. These two have been born into this circumstance and are at the start of the film already living in the ramifications of coming from these beginnings, trying to get the pizza box guy fired to take over his job even before the main scheme of the narrative is presented to them. These performers both effortlessly and indelibly capture the essence of a youth lost to itself and struggling to find a place at the table, the singularity of each individuals wants trumping any code of ethics or relationship connection, their wants and needs never met and always in flux. Even as these characters perform illicit acts on unassuming individuals, their complexly woven essences and enduring like-ability never eludes them at any juncture. So many scenes showcase their inner truths and plights and their explorations always feel honest. My favorite moment in a movie with endless amazing ones being a cigarette break in a bathroom with rising sewage water almost overtaking the entire frame. These are people in the midst of a world that gave up on them still good hearted. The son especially desires to make his accomplishments externally validated even if it will take him many years to attain. The brother and sister are both growing and trying to find themselves, there isn’t any malice in the intention of their behavior, by design they have to claw their way to the metaphorical top by any means necessary. The cards have already been stacked against them. In an odd way they are the two most relatable characters in the picture, victims of the inequality and disparages depicted in societies everywhere and again the two characters are not consciously even bad people. I love the moment in the film where the daughter drunkenly yells out that they need to be focusing on themselves only, this inner modality key to understanding the perspective of all the characters in the scheming family as they seek to better their lives and see almost no way forward otherwise. Everyone in the picture is wonderful. There are other subplots and main characters in the movie but they all end up being incidentals to the point in a greater sense about the irrelevancy and decaying circumstance of the situations at hand, altruism and altruistic desire the thrust of everyone’s life in culture today and the spill over of it explored in many different individuals who all struggle to attain what they want and some struggling to simply survive. The twists and turns and additional characters in the narrative not mentioned specifically by me also enhance a theme of reflection as to who is a parasite and what constitutes the need for that facility in society and life to begin with, leaving ponderous moments in hindsight that also cement this picture as iconic god tier level cinema. Honestly every single thing about this picture is incredible from its thrilling third act blood bath to its taut and hilarious scathing indictment on the upper echelon scheme externalized in fruition first third to its startling and horrific tonal shift and dramatic explorations mid point through when a previously fired housekeeper shows up mysteriously late at night. Not to mention the tense and immaculately designed sequence where the scheming family tries to elude being seen and caught by the returning wealthy family, back from a vacation much sooner than expected. The layout of the house and how it’s design is immaculately woven into the narrative as it unfolds especially at this juncture is stupendous. The camera work and the framing of this movie is spellbinding. Every single shot feels perfect. This is a staggeringly brilliant and fully realized masterpiece. This is such a competently designed and executed vision. This is something to behold, one of the very greatest in all of art and cinema, forevermore.                                                                                             2019 Films Ranked 
332. Yorum: I see why people love this film it had one of the best plots I’ve ever seen and it was done perfectly. The acting was also amazing and the cinematography was beautiful has to be one of the most well made films out there.
333. Yorum: i've pushed this off long enough. bong joon-ho is truly a master of his craft. he can direct at such a high level. i haven't been this impressed since my last time watching kurosawa's HIGH AND LOW. it all feels so effortless, yet it's impeccable. this guy knows how to frame a fucking scene! it's the little stuff like that, that'll elevate your film from good to great. i went into this completely blind, so it's safe to say, that my assumptions of the plot were totally wrong. that said, i love how it played out. my only gripe being, that they could've cut some of the fat out of the script. a lot of it wasn't really needed. still, it's another south korean banger.
334. Yorum: Parasite is a mind-blowing social commentary that is clearly exemplifying how the poor and needy are often condescended upon by the rich and wealthy. The relevant theme of social class is what progresses the story.
335. Yorum: bong joon-ho making me speechless even after my second viewing !!!! how does he do it? that’s a secret he’ll never tell xoxo jessica from illinois, chicago.
336. Yorum: Sight and Sound’s Greatest Films of All Time (2022) – #93
340. Yorum: Is it possible to execute a tonal shift of THAT magnitude within a movie just that perfectly? Goddamn, at the beginning I was chuckling light-heartedly, then by the end I was clutching the edge of my seat for support to stay upright and not fall on the ground from the pure PRESSURE of it all. Such a singular experience, it deserved the Palme d'Or a hundred percent.
341. Yorum: This is my third time watching Parasite and I’m still picking up my jaw off the floor…
342. Yorum: I rewatched all of Bong Joon-ho's Oscar acceptance speeches this morning, just as a little mood boost and to start the day off with a smile so I figured why not give this masterpiece another rewatch as well. It's actually been quite awhile since I last watched it, well at least for a 2019 film I adore this much.
343. Yorum: Movies I can't enjoy as an indigenous person list.
344. Yorum: someone is going to need another trauma recovery cake…
345. Yorum: A+ // 95 - Criterion Edition with commentary
346. Yorum: Ok what the actual fuck I'm stressed out
347. Yorum: Won best picture for a reason. What a movie!
348. Yorum: Wow! This movie just gets better and better the more you watch it. Although not quite 5 stars for me YET, I reckon with a couple more watches it could easily make it into that. I personally don't blame anyone who thinks this movie is an absolute masterpiece and if anything, I agree with them to a large extent. I just feel like 5 stars atm doesn't feel quite right. I think I need to dissect this movie more in order to appreciate all the intricacies that there are and then I believe my mind will sway. As for now it's still a work of art, just not quite reaching the 5 star mark for me.
349. Yorum: I've seen this film exactly 33x. I don't even understand Korean but I'm at a point where I can figure out what's going on without subtitles.
352. Yorum: I have saved the best for last and indeed I did. This is easily my favorite film from Bong Joon-ho. Although, I thought it was kind of overrated when I first saw it because I didn’t get it and I was new to foreign films at the time. Now that I’m used to seeing foreign movies and how films structured, I absolutely loved it! 
353. Yorum: time to jessica jingle my way into hbo headquarters maybe they need a new "intern"....... anyways........ i am manifesting that parasite sweeps in oscar noms on monday and it also better sweep in wins <3
354. Yorum: When I watched Okja I was immediately taken by just how new it seemed. From the very first scene it appeared to be something completely fresh. 
355. Yorum: 12 months on from watching this masterpiece of modern cinema for the first time, and it still feels just as fresh, as well designed, as well executed and as batshit crazy as the first time.
356. Yorum: a masterpeach literally a masterpeach
357. Yorum: Now that I’ve formed the thoughts I need to review this, let me just say that my expectations for this film was far beyond what I perceived. Bong has always had a way of using tragedy and class dynamics as a tool to drive a narrative, and this was no different. Where do I even start?
358. Yorum: CJ Entertainment: Bong Joonho oppa, what genre this movie will be?
359. Yorum: This had unreal expectations to live up to and it still managed to exceed them. I didn’t expect anything that happened in that movie and that’s really how it should be seen so you should try to go into this knowing nothing at all. 
361. Yorum: get this 40s ass Hitchcock shit outta my face. Nice metaphors bitch
362. Yorum: *slowly removes fancy heart-shaped sunglasses* i beg your fucking pardon
363. Yorum: and y'all say the oscars sabotage horror???? LITERALLY THE BIGGEST SLASHER OF ALL TIME
365. Yorum: add an option to filter out 1-2 sentence reviewshttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Nzkw03GRAFI&pp=ygUTc3dhbnMgZmVlbCBoYXBwbmVzcw%3D%3D
366. Yorum: Tight.
367. Yorum: Is this the most deserving best picture win of all time?
369. Yorum: i cannot believe this movie exists. an absolute masterpiece in every sense of the word. i saw this film for the first time in august, this is my first watch since then but this time i had the pleasure of watching it at the cinema. wow. i forgot just how much i loved this film. the directing, the acting, the writing, the production design, this film does not have a SINGLE flaw. i truly believe this is one of the best films ever made.
370. Yorum: Who knew peaches could be dangerous weapons?
371. Yorum: moral of the story, be the elephant you wish to see in the room
372. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho OWNS my ass
373. Yorum: Parasite may be the best film I've ever seen and I don't even know it. For whatever reason Bong Joon-ho is such a master at his craft that it's difficult for me to pick out specific things to highlight in his films. The acting? Well that's tied to the direction. Which influences the production. Which is all related to a good story. Which contain wild tone shifts that would've fallen flat from most others. Which contain enough textual material to dig deep into while still remaining accessible to casual viewers.
374. Yorum: spent super bowl sunday the right way, rewatching a korean film in new york city with a bunch of gays, girls, and old people
375. Yorum: Hey, this is actually a great frickin' movie. Who knew?
376. Yorum: P: retentious
378. Yorum: Full review here.
379. Yorum: I thought this movie was gonna be dark because of the poster.
380. Yorum: Wow, I am in shock on how good this film is. Parasite is a masterpiece. I loved every single minute of it and couldn't keep my eyes off it. This film is perfect with the setting, characters, story, and score. Bong Joon Ho is an amazing director, and I really need to see his other films. I was speechless when the credits rolled, and I kinda just sat there speechless. The cast is great, especially the main family. This is a brilliant film about greed and what it does to people. This film had a brilliant ending, which I'm still taken back at how good it was. This film mixes the genres of horror, thriller, and a bit of comedy.
381. Yorum: #1 it is!! 🤷‍♂️🤩
382. Yorum: I'm not the world's biggest Bong Joon-ho fan (loved Memories of Murder, liked The Host and Okja, didn't care for Snowpiercer and Mother) but there's no doubt he's one of the bigger filmmaking talents working today. With Parasite he's pretty much worked towards all his strengths and delivered one of the most creative, entertainingly bonkers films I've ever seen.
383. Yorum: BEST PICTURE 2020 NO FUCKING JOKE I’M SHAKING
384. Yorum: "That's so metaphorical" - Ki-woo
386. Yorum: Parasite, just like other Bong Joon Ho movies, crosses over different genres with relative ease.
388. Yorum: I have no words…
389. Yorum: genuinely believe we’ll never get an oscar winner as good as this again
391. Yorum: Yeah, it took me forever to see this. I failed the Letterboxd community and the film bros and the cinephiles and all that.
392. Yorum: I listened to all of you and learned almost nothing about this beforehand. Holy crap, I'm so glad I did that! The emotions I experienced while watching this ran the full spectrum.
393. Yorum: i haven't watched it i just wanted to have your attention and tell croatia to fuck off
394. Yorum: I guess only someone like Bong Joon-ho could have made a comedy/drama/thriller about internal class manipulation and social invisible war, without ever surrendering itself into becoming politically partisan to one side in diminish of the other (left wing more specifically), as some usual filmmakers tend to appeal; and make a small masterpiece like Parasite out of that! Maybe his most inspired directing and writing ever since Mistery of Murder dare I say. Where every single detail going behind this movie works beautifully well on screen that lets you know since the start that this is a master’s movie and nothing below that.
395. Yorum: I'm serious. It keeps following me.
397. Yorum: I can't believe it's taken me until now to watch this masterpiece. Holy shit I'm at a loss for words. This was genuinely one of the best films I've ever seen. I went through the five stages of grief watching this film fr.
398. Yorum: Obviously im late to the game on this one and im sure everything that could be said has been said by this point but lemme throw my thoughts out there ofc this movie is very very good i didnt know too much of what this movie would be abt going into it and i was not let down in what i saw my favorite thing about parasite tho is easily how it has that suspenseful feeling to it where you can feel every scene building and building and tensions rising until you cant take it any longer and youre just waiting for all hell to break loose anddd boom there ya go peace gangstas
399. Yorum: I could imagine the reaction an audience member would have to seeing The Godfather or The Shawshank Redemption for the first time at its release is similar to how we treat this movie. Already it’s claimed best of all time status as Bong Joon Ho’s perfect genre blend of dark comedy, thriller and social satire makes for one of the greatest films I’ve ever had the pleasure of seeing. Stunning visual storytelling that differentiates the two classes of these families without feeling on the nose or protentious. For instance a rain storm to the Parks might seem like a beautiful thing but to people like the Kims it’s a detriment and a destructive force that will inflict massive damage on their home. He demonstrates two different meanings of an event for two different classes all done with stunning symbolism and breathtaking cinematography. While being a technical mastery it’s also extremely funny and the type of humour implemented is so smart and clever and it stays true to the kind of characters these people are. Unlike a lot of other “hollywoodised” films the lower class characters are portrayed as extremely intelligent people because they have to be to survive. The way that they widdle themselves into exclusive positions with this high class family is extremely clever and well done. As well as that the wealthy family isn’t portrayed as complete villains or idiots. The film doesn’t give you a reason to hate them, but you can also see where the lower class family is coming from as their hatred and anger towards these people begins to  grow. But there’s a certain point in the story where the film shifts and no longer remains funny and turns into an extremely serious film. I’m almost tempted to use the word scary when describing the events that occur, and I say that because everything that happens feels plausible and real. There’s no glitz or glamour sugar coated over the top of this dark and twisted story. The subtle imagery shown throughout the film creates its own narrative and makes you understand where each of these characters are coming from. Where a lot of films fall short is not knowing when they’re showing too much and this film understands that brilliantly and leaves a lot to be ambiguous and it works perfectly. It makes you create scenarios in your head as to what will happen to these characters, what will they do tomorrow? When a film has you thinking about it long after you watch it, you know you have a classic on your hands and that’s exactly what Parasite is.
400. Yorum: yeah so this is perfect
401. Yorum: best p(arasite)icture.
404. Yorum: TIFF 2019 Film #2: Special Presentations (Canadian Premiere)
405. Yorum: i have no idea how it took me so long to rewatch this and realize that this is a perfect movie
407. Yorum: Nothing like I was expecting! The story is so different. Such a slanted view on life it is a trip. A very good movie that is a must see. I won’t give away the story but the title is very misleading. Don’t judge weather to see it or not by what type of movie will be by its title. I waited to see it so long because of the title because I thought that it was going to be another type of movie. Give it a try if you haven’t already.
408. Yorum: yup this really is the greatest film of all time
409. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho lays it on thick, doesn't he? "Do you even allegory, bro?"
410. Yorum: The dogs were really cute! I love them!! That’s all I have to say, I don’t want to spoil. It’s an experience! It’s incredible! Believe the hypeeee
411. Yorum: My dog farted so hard it I couldn’t read the subtitles
412. Yorum: I’m a broken record at this point... but 2019 really was an incredible year for film.
413. Yorum: during the q&a bong called parasite a “staircase movie” and little does he know he just inspired my term project <3 his mind <3
414. Yorum: this is one of those times i wish letterboxd let us give a rating higher than 5 stars.
417. Yorum: if my house flooded, i would also sit on the toilet and chainsmoke
418. Yorum: this is truly miles ahead of every other movie released last year
419. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho's Parasite is a really return to form for the South Korean director, leaving the fantasy genre aside and going back to a much grounded direction that still embraces the fun and social commentary we've come to love from him, creating a flawless masterwork and a great, very entertaining exercise on tension.
420. Yorum: Perhaps the most explicit class commentary in recent years on the divide between the wealth class and the working class, much in the same way that American Beauty explicitly hit home with the generation yearning to escape the empty and soulless cubicle existence in 1999. Both films perfectly captured the zeitgeist of the moment, skyrocketed in popularity, and grabbed a plethora of awards including Best Picture at the Oscars.
421. Yorum: Mom liked it! This will be a respectable hit over here if Neon puts in the work.
422. Yorum: ☆"This is so metaphorical!"☆
423. Yorum: The earth is attempting to rid itself of an infection by human parasite.
424. Yorum: Movie Challenge (recommended by friends)
425. Yorum: I HAVE NEVER SAID A BAD THING ABOUT THE ACADEMY THE ACADEMY IS MY FRIEND. WE ARE BESTIES. I HANG OUT WITH THEM ALL THE TIME! THEIR WEED? I ROLL IT! 
426. Yorum: That peach scene alone is perfect enough to earn every award out there.
428. Yorum: There are, quite honestly, no words.
431. Yorum: For a film full of cheats, frauds and sociopaths, each family unit loves each other truly and deeply. Just nobody else.
432. Yorum: Part 9 of the January Film list
433. Yorum: 100-word review: Prefacing this by saying I, someone with a distaste for Bong Joon-ho's filmography, and historically a contrarian when it comes to virtually unanimously beloved films, have put off watching Parasite until now, because I was very afraid I would wind up giving it three stars; fortunately this was not the case — it's indeed great. Loved the bluntness of the moral about the bottom ten percent fighting over the scarps of the top ten percent, instead of uniting in their common struggle; the physical manifestation — one family living three-quarters underground, this other family even deeper underground — is candid greatness.
434. Yorum: A tragic comedy thriller that serves as a powerful social satire in exploring the capitalistic class inequality and the toxic darker side of human greed. Though the storyline feels far fetched, the impactful narrative, detailing and execution makes it a wholesome cinematic experience. The cinematography, editing, dialogues and performances are outstanding. The metaphors are strong throughout and the climax sums up all the frustration of lack of awareness and sympathy in a groundbreaking way. A masterpiece from Bong Joon-Ho.
435. Yorum: The second time around I could really appreciate how well this film was made. I genuinely cannot think of a single flaw here. Every scene is so fluid and perfect. There is so much foreshadowing and little important details everywhere. Even though every frame and pixel has already been studied under a microscope by everyone, it’s still fun trying to decipher it all.
436. Yorum: watching the second time i was excited to focus more on the photography and sound... NOPE, got sucked as deeply into the story as the first time 
437. Yorum: So guys, I gotta let you know something! I have a revolutionary take on this film that I'm absolutely positive nobody else has stated on this platform, or anywhere in general. So, get ready and here we go!
439. Yorum: Before 2019, I would have held The Social Network as the definitive 2010s movie. But Fincher's masterpiece would have gotten away with it if it weren't for Bong Joon Ho's meddling little Parasite!
440. Yorum: giving bong joon-ho the awards he really deserved for this movie was the ONLY thing the academy have ever done right
441. Yorum: The cockroaches, scurrying about in the dark corners of my soul, scatter as I am bathed in the warm glow of Bong Joon-ho's brilliance. Hollywood is dead. Long live our new Korean overlords.
443. Yorum: Parasite is a masterpiece. A drakly funny, superbly directed movie that flawlessly combines many tones and genres and delivers social commentary in a way that's thrilling and always entertaining.
444. Yorum: if i had all this i would be kinder
445. Yorum: If you make a plan, life just doesn’t work out that way.
446. Yorum: A light, brisk jog; amps up into a tense, strenuous sprint; only to blindside you, tackle you, send you careening to the floor. It’s sleek and precise and exhilarating; Bong Joon-Ho flexes his directorial prowess with this beast of a film. Nothing hits the fan the way Korean cinema does.
447. Yorum: HOLY FUCK I AM SPEECHLESS. THIS IS THE LITERALLY THE BEST FILM OF 2019. THIS BETTER GET SOME FUCKING RECOGNITION AT THE 2020 AWARD SEASON PLEASE I AM !!!!!! THIS WAS A TRIP AND WORTH EVERY SINGLE MINUTE.... GUYS, WHAT THE FUCK! EVERYONE PLEASE WATCH THIS MASTERPIECE ASAP
448. Yorum: anyone else feeling nostalgic for the 2019/2020 awards season?
449. Yorum: Society do be like that tho
450. Yorum: why yes, i won best picture, how could you tell?
451. Yorum: Yeah, all aboard the hype train. This one is pretty sick.
452. Yorum: one thing I really appreciated about Okja and Snowpiercer is how Bong Joon-ho constructs stories that can serve as clear and shamelessly unsubtle metaphor while also being genuinely engaging narratives and this is no exception.
453. Yorum: I've never paused a movie so many damn time.
454. Yorum: Black and white/monochrome cut
456. Yorum: you forget the first part of this movie is just HILARIOUS?
458. Yorum: imagine me sitting in the toilet cubicle at work refreshing the academy’s twitter page 100 times and realising they got best picture right for once
459. Yorum: John's Oscars 2020
460. Yorum: Quick expansion/clarification of an idea from my original, more thorough review:
461. Yorum: has anyone seen this...?
462. Yorum: when your circle small but yall crazy!!!!!!!
464. Yorum: cannot believe that less than a year ago this won the best picture at the oscars????? time isn’t real
465. Yorum: nothing but the utmost fucking respect for this year’s best picture winner holy shit
466. Yorum: The performances sucked me into every bizarre fold. The writing was always surprising but wildly efficient. Also, what an impressive feat to weave between such disparate tones with such skill. This is a film I imagine I'll keep thinking about.
467. Yorum: im not saying its bad or anything i just think i couldve done a better job
470. Yorum: **Mild Spoilers Ahead**
471. Yorum: i don’t even know what to say, this is just so perfect it speaks for itself. not a single flaw in sight, just a cinematic masterpiece being a cinematic masterpiece. i love cinema
472. Yorum: Talk about living up to the hype. One crucial scene in the third act does give me a little pause but perhaps that will iron out in rewatches. Bong Joon-ho's command over his craft is second to none. Not a single wasted moment here. Love the way he telegraphs the narrative through very small details. Also, hilarious and shocking. Took until the second half for me to get into the full swing of things then it wouldn't let go.
473. Yorum: There’s literally nothing I can say that hasn’t already been said about this masterpiece. Truly a phenomenon with quite possibly the best writing in any film I’ve seen. That garden party scene is fucking incredible oh my god. Fuck all those mfs that don’t give this a 5 star rating what else do you need??
474. Yorum: i tried watching parasite a million times but i couldn't get past 30 mins of it but today i forced myself to watch it throughout the end and my expectations were high but goddamn. the directing of this film and the acting was absolutely phenomenal... it deserves every oscar win they earned back in 2020. i thought parasite was a horror film but it was more intense and a thriller film and while watching throughout the first hour i was kinda bored but i like the part where everyone practices to get recruited and show the family that they have experience in every field of their work... especially ki-jung like she fucking impressed me lmaooo she was just so great with teaching the kid lmaooo. i didn't like the slow storyline but then i realized that it builds character development (?) for every character which i liked.
475. Yorum: It's Parasite. What else did you expect?
477. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho is back.
478. Yorum: why do other movies even exist
479. Yorum: Dad, today I made a plan - a fundamental plan. I'm going to earn money, a lot of it. University, a career, marriage, those are all fine, but first I'll earn money. When I have money, I'll buy the house. On the day we move in, Mom and I will be in the yard. Because the sunshine is so nice there. All you'll need to do is walk up the stairs. Take care until then. So long.
480. Yorum: Parasite’s immaculate level of balancing the themes of growing class tensions in modern society, supported by it’s tones of gripping horror, dark comedy and high suspense is so remarkably engaging that it very quickly reaches a state of perfection of which I’ve never been under so much anxiety and stress while watching a film. 
482. Yorum: i had pretty high expectations, seeing that this is the number one movie on this app. somehow they were exceeded.
483. Yorum: Imagine hearing this film so absolutely phenomenal and one of if not the greatest film ever made and having a ton of opportunities to watch it and waiting 2 years to watch it. Couldn’t be me…
484. Yorum: ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT. Just when you think you have the movie out planned, it takes you on a rollercoaster ride with so much hidden depth and meaning. Your head will be thinking about the movie for a while. 5 stars.
485. Yorum: Yes this is my first time watching Parasite I'm so embarrassed 😭😭
486. Yorum: Third time watching. 
487. Yorum: This is the most “non-boring” movie I have ever seen in my entire life. Like, how is it possible for somebody to not find this entertaining? HOW?
488. Yorum: thank you, bong joon-ho, for blessing me with this masterpiece
489. Yorum: I was given great advice about Parasite: "read nothing, go in blind, trust Joon-ho Bong." You should follow that advice too and just go see it.
490. Yorum: "Respect!"
491. Yorum: when the wife talked about cockroaches, only for the husband to end up living like a cockroach in the house. Damn.
493. Yorum: FINALLY I WAS ABLE TO WATCH THIS MASTERPIECE!!! 
495. Yorum: One of the greatest films ever made. Films with such originality & brilliance only come every so often.
496. Yorum: Believe the hype. PARASITE is a masterpiece on so many levels. It is a black comedy, a thriller, a horror, a social satire and has a deep socio-economic statement that's timely.
497. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's least imaginative film to date, and (perhaps because of that fact) the least "Bong" film he's made. One of the things that make Bong's two international co-productions, Snowpiercer and Okja, so disappointing for me is the absence of geographical and political specificity in their critique of capitalism (and by extension, Bong’s own aesthetic specificities). In the case of Snowpiercer, Bong's commentary on class struggle is especially feeble precisely because his attack on the global capitalist order remains abstract. Okja arguably does a better job in this regard, but not by much. It seems to me that Bong has yet to recover from his international co-production malady in spite of the return to his home ground. I am baffled by David Ehrlich's vapid assertion that with Parasite, "Bong Joon-ho has become a genre unto himself." He might want to revisit Memories of Murder, The Host and Mother, and rethink what he wrote. At its worst, Parasite feels like a parody of Bong’s greatest hits. 
498. Yorum: today is my birthday and i decided to celebrate by watching a masterpiece!!
501. Yorum: literally the best thing i’ve ever done for myself was go into this movie blind not knowing anything about the plot the first time i saw it. when it finished i was like well i could have predicted this to have gone a million different ways but no way in hell could i have predicted that
504. Yorum: Don’t watch any of the trailers and don’t read anything about it before watching it. Considering that, I’ll try to be as vague as possible in this review.
506. Yorum: The Parasitic master Bong Joon-ho: Ranked!
508. Yorum: the greatest movie of all time? idk ho maybe.. i don’t make the rules.
509. Yorum: you know that moment in parasite that goes from 0:00:00 to circa 2:07:11? wow what a moment i’ll never forget. that moment is the reason this film won the award for best original screenplay, international feature film, directing AND, for the first time in oscar history as a non-english language film, best picture. wow. what a time to be alive
511. Yorum: Fevered class. The rich and the dreary, clear and front. Warm grazings of light and deceit, an establishment of clean. Pretty much everything I’d expect from a Bong hit. A mix of genre influence, a heavy thematic energy, and overwhelming charm and poetic visage, but unfortunately this was a movie where the hype was so immense and extreme that I only came out disappointed that I didn’t really see what anyone else is seeing. To me, it’s just a good movie from a great director. There’s nothing exactly remarkable or life-changing about it. It’s such a beautifully shot and expertly written movie, tight and perfectly orchestrated by a man who’s a master of his craft. It’s just, sadly, Bong’s made much better movies. Am I glad that this is so loved by so many people? Yes. But do I also wish y’all had this same energy when Mother and The Host came out? Also yes.
512. Yorum: Imagine being allergic to peaches
513. Yorum: Hey guys, so im not logging this because I watched it. Im logging because me and my friend are trying to find a movie to watch and she may not want to watch of some of the movies I recommend (because they may be slow burn, or more so drama).
514. Yorum: alright STINKY mr. kim go to hell SMELLY
515. Yorum: I wrote about goddamn Parasite for The Film Stage. first review for that site, filled with spoilers, some of the work I’m most proud of. this is a huge opportunity for me and it’s something that couldn’t have happened without the support of my colleagues at Cinematary, who gave me a platform and constant support/advice. its because of them that I made it to London Film Festival and that I was able to get this article posted! if you’ve seen the movie, please give this a read and let me know what you think of it!
516. Yorum: The biggest smile swept across my face when Parasite won tonight and there’s nothing I want more than to watch this for the third time and continue to appreciate Bongs masterpiece!
517. Yorum: Parasite is a multi-genre masterwork, consistently escaping any categorization as its plot twists and turns and transforms like a Rubix cube, continually keeping both its protagonists and its audience on an uneven yet endlessly entertaining ground with a steady blend of satirical comedy, adrenalizing thrills, and sheer horror.
519. Yorum: I cannot believe this nonsense is winning all the awards. This movie is so evil, vile, and wrong on many levels. This is not a movie about gap between the rich and the poor, this is a movie about a perfectly normal family (the Parks) being violated by a family of thieves, frauds, and killers. Pretending it's a social commentary on class difference is just ignorant and morally bankrupt.
523. Yorum: Damn, he really shouldn’t have given his friend that job recommendation.
524. Yorum: incredible
525. Yorum: “If there’s one thing I hate, it’s people that cross the line.”- Mr. Park
526. Yorum: I might have found my new favorite Korean film! I mean wow, there's just so many layers to all this. I'm so glad I went into it blind. I didn't know what to expect. Granted, I knew Bong would do his usual genre blending, but the fact he did his usual critique of the class differences in South Korea while also making me bust a gut? That's some huge skill right there. Stellar acting overall, but I just have to give it to Park So-dam. Her character was probably the most frustrating yet compelling. Ki-jung proves to be very cunning throughout the story, setting up most of the plans to kick the other employees out. Yet, she's too lazy to even THINK of what her dream home would be like. While I should watch it again to really let it sink in, I don't think anything else from 2019 will top this for me.
529. Yorum: This is so metaphorical.
530. Yorum: I wonder how he was going to get that letter back to his dad
531. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho and Luca Guadagnino really know how to do fucked up things with peaches.
534. Yorum: Listened to the commentary. Very funny hearing Bong watch his own movie and go “oh my god” and “jeez” and “wow that’s super extreme violence”, sounding genuinely disturbed by the movie he made lol
535. Yorum: bong better be walking up those stairs to claim all his awards this season!!!!!!
536. Yorum: Finally! This has been waiting in my watchlist since the day I downloaded Letterboxd, and it did not disappoint at all. Fantastic screenplay by Bong Joon-ho and I really hope it will be a 5 star at a later rewatch.
537. Yorum: so like, this films been out for a while now and i was just wondering when everyone was gonna pack up, go home and find another career bc no ones gonna be able to top this.
539. Yorum: Bong really just went and forgot to add any flaws to this movie…
540. Yorum: i was super tired when is started this so wasn’t sure if i was going to manage reading subtitles for two hours but WOW HOLY MOTHER. Parasite is visually so easy to watch and gripping. i’d heard the hype over this film but never knew what it involved and im so glad i went into it without knowing because i gasped so much.
542. Yorum: The greatest movie ever made? It's certainly up there. Words can't express how good this film is. Every single second of this film is perfect, Bony Joon Ho executed every aspect flawlessly. It was bound to happen but Prisoners leaves my top ten favourites for the first time this year.
543. Yorum: The scholar's rock was floating on the sewage water. It's fake, and lighter than it looks!
544. Yorum: Not sure what I can aim to unpack that hasn’t already been done (but hi here’s my review), but just a note to urge you to seek out the black and white version if you can.
545. Yorum: I wish I had more time and energy to write about this, but life has been hectic lately so I have to keep it brief. The movie is amazing. Hilarious, gut wrenching, smartly written, and gorgeously shot. Also, Lee Sun-kyun has such an amazing voice haha. I haven't seen him since R-Point, which was like...ages ago. I should watch that again sometime, I remember liking it.
547. Yorum: A really enjoyable movie until the doorbell rings with old maid trying to get in the house. From that point in it’s a nonstop anxiety attack that you can’t look away from! I do wish Ki-jung had lived though. That really puts a damper on the ending. Otherwise i think the movie is great!
548. Yorum: Just like in The Exorcist, Parasite is littered with themes and motifs of ascending and descending. Except this time the evil isn’t demonic, it’s economic.
549. Yorum: Watching a universally beloved work of art and connecting with it on every single level has got to be one of the best film related experiences ever created
550. Yorum: One of my favorite parts is when the basement-dwelling Geun-se and Mr. Park come face to face and Geun-se shouts "Hello Mr. Park RESPECT" and Mr. Park simply replies "you know me?" It just hits differently with the rise of the Elon Musk fanboy.
551. Yorum: On rewatch, I've come to appreciate this film even more. Admittedly, I'm not well-diverse into the whole satirical take of capitalism premise, but I can say that this is hands down the most riveting and sublime film I've seen in a very long while!!
552. Yorum: I think Parasite is so good that you almost forget how good it is. On every single level, it’s pretty much perfect, to the point where you don’t even think about it. Bong’s vision is so strong, and you can obviously tell that everything that is happening in front of you is happening for a reason. Also, everyone in it is fantastic, especially Cho Yeo-jeong and Song Kang-ho. I can’t imagine not absolutely loving this movie. I’m so happy it exists. I’ve seen it 3 times now and it’s just as funny, shocking, and tense as the first time. I can’t wait to see what Bong does next.
553. Yorum: So I've finally seen the film I've been looking forward to for about a year! The first hour is great; simple, effective, funny, tense and punctuated with great characters. But there's a twist at the midway point that is a surprise because it comes out of nowhere, and it completely disrupts the rhythm that the film was building and seems to undermine the central theme. The class struggle presented is interesting and there's a clear divide between the two central families but I'm not sure if anything here is done better than it was in The Handmaiden. There's certainly lots to like and I did enjoy it...but it really just left me cold to be honest, which I wasnt expecting after the first half! I wouldn't call Parasite the best film of last year or even a personal best for Bong (but I'm glad he got the prize because of his impressive filmography)
554. Yorum: Now THAT’S what I call an original screenplay. We need more movies like this in the US.
556. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho OWNS my ass
557. Yorum: Watched the black and white version. Parasite is one of the all time greats and is easily in my top five favourites ever. The acting performances, directing, storytelling, sound, writing, pacing, the themes it explores, the multiple genres that are seamlessly weaved together and THAT final act... Absolute Perfection.
558. Yorum: I think the last moment of sheer joy I felt was when this won Best Picture
560. Yorum: I am probably the last person on here to watch this movie, but I'm glad I finally got around to it. There's really nothing to say about this other than to affirm that it is indeed the masterpiece everyone says it is. Bong Joon-ho is one of the best at visual storytelling, blending genres and crafting insanely layered and shocking stories. The technical aspects of the film are unsurprisingly all perfect. The impressive symbolism and foreshadowing cement the film as a classic with endless rewatchability for years to come. I'm glad this got the recognition it deserved.
561. Yorum: Something truely shifted when this movie dropped, everybody moved, instant classic.
562. Yorum: A power ballad for the ages. Sweeping crescendo and all. That ultimate symphony between biting commentary and edge of your seat entertainment. And who better as your conductor than the maestro of scintillating social statements, Bong Joon-Ho himself. God, what an absolute banger. 
566. Yorum: I feel so bad for not watching this sooner rather then later. This was so good! Forgive me Bong Joon Ho.
568. Yorum: I spent 95% of this movie worrying something bad would happen to the dogs. Otherwise, great!
569. Yorum: A stratified society that is strongly separated by a breach that grows and is almost impossible to cross, poverty, inequality and ambition, an uncertain future, and the attempt to disrupt the social order are some of the elements combined for the beholder to witness the class struggle in all its voracity. Bong Joon-ho's latest work is a scathing critique of contemporary Korean society which, in many respects, is not far removed nor very different from the reality we experience elsewhere. Gisaengchung is a truly hypnotic work that is constantly transforming itself, mutating, captivating and mystifying with its intense pace, shifting from the darkest comedy to the most brutal drama in a masterly manner while imbuing uneasiness and tension. Satire and social commentary with immense power and great eloquence. Irreverent, visceral, and ingenious; Gisaengchung is quite simply brilliant.
570. Yorum: How am I supposed to go on with my life now wtf lmao
575. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.” - Ki-Taek
576. Yorum: still a masterpiece. still one of the best films of all time.
577. Yorum: after geun-sae escapes the bunker....AND steals a knife......AND stabs ki-jeong in the heart........AND traumatizes countless people at this party.......a 70 year-old man sitting behind me leaned over to his wife.......and with no way of knowing how to react........just blurts out......................“wow, he’s really going bananas”
578. Yorum: Bitches will say this a masterpiece...
579. Yorum: So.... any of you heard of Parasite? It's a pretty good movie. Wouldn't want it to get lost in all the new movie excitement and have no one notice.
581. Yorum: holy shit???? the first good movie??
582. Yorum: Easily one of the best films of 2019!
583. Yorum: The only negative thing about the 4th viewing was that somebody brought a crying baby into the theater. Anyway, check out my earlier write-up on this masterpiece: link.medium.com/QdG86fMem1
584. Yorum: i should’ve kept track of how many times i said wtf during this movie
586. Yorum: Do it clockwise. ⏰
587. Yorum: Joining rarified air alongside La Grande Illusion (1937), Z (1969), The Emigrants (1971), Cries and Whispers (1972), Life is Beautiful (1997), Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon (2000), Letters from Iwo Jima (2006), Babel (2006), Amour (2012), and Roma (2018), Bong Joon-ho’s dark comedy thriller Parasite 기생충 (2019) is only the twelfth foreign language film to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture (formerly the Academy Award for Outstanding Production).
588. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho reigns!!!!!!!!!!!!! Parasite is AMAZING! Love love love this film. A complete and total knockout. A brilliant dark comedy and fantastic take down of rich people. One of Bong Joon-ho's best films, and I LOVE his films, so that's really saying something. A masterclass in filmmaking, with perfect composition, every performance dialed in, and a genius screenplay with so much depth and intelligence and humor. IT RULES. So fucking much. Ahhhh!! I can't wait to see this again.
589. Yorum: this is one of those movies that won’t ever get boring but you kinda wish you could forget so you can watch for the first time again.
590. Yorum: Second viewing.
594. Yorum: All you’ll have to do is come up the stairs.
596. Yorum: Parasite, i'm in love with you. 
597. Yorum: "Rich people are naive. No resentments. No creases on them."
599. Yorum: Where were you when Parasite swept?
601. Yorum: this might get slightly overhyped.
603. Yorum: Pride shattered by glass
604. Yorum: It amazes me when after all this time films can still feel this original
605. Yorum: forever questioned my love for the rain
606. Yorum: Ghastly contortions of morality bludgeon any manicured perceptions of action one may have leave the audience most certainly dumbfounded to the callous intelligence of the labyrinthine fracturing facades that Parasite unyieldingly suffocates one with in a macabre symphony of riveting accounts and proportions. Emphatically inconspicuous is it’s thesis on the inexorable triad of class, psyche and morality, one in its seethingly fierce discretion injects a near cerebral nature to Parasite’s already deafening opera of erratically swirling ethos. 
607. Yorum: April fools :)
608. Yorum: have y’all heard of this Parasite movie? it’s pretty good
609. Yorum: park so dam if you see this i am free on thursday. if you want to hang out with me on thursday when i am free please respond and come over when i am free on thursday so we can hang out on thursday when i am free.
610. Yorum: i think we can all agree that parasite
612. Yorum: this is so metaphorical!!!
613. Yorum: Loved it!
615. Yorum: That Ho can really direct
616. Yorum: For the longest while I've had Mother as my #1 Bong Joon-ho film. Even having seen Parasite I still, for whatever reason, gave the older movie the (slightest) edge. But with Parasite's recent wide-release I've been thinking about it more and decided I preferred it.
617. Yorum: forgot how absolutely batshit insane the second hour of this film is. easily the most deserving best picture winner of the last ten years
618. Yorum: "Parasite" by Bong Joon-ho is a film that, even upon a second viewing, manages to deeply impress and astonish. The complexity of the plot and the impeccable development of the story offer a sharp and penetrating look at delicate themes such as family and social class.
620. Yorum: My God, I am sooo happy that this amazing film had won Best Picture, Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, and now Best International Feature Film! Tomorrow, I am going to watch this amazing film and remember that this is the only time great films like this will never get this kinda recognition for Best Picture! Now I can sleep better tonight! Bong Joon-Ho, you fucking deserved it!!! 🇰🇷
621. Yorum: Familiar structures, the place where concern lies, where trust lies, everything is a net of connections but everything is also fabricated. The commentary is precisely imagined and well detailed, with a particular care for social conflict and geographic conscience, the class struggle as a moral clash of voluntary servitude with crooked hiccup. Quite funny and dark.
622. Yorum: This film changed my life 4 years ago and made me love cinema.
623. Yorum: First time watching on 4K. Parasite is no doubt one of the greatest movies ever made released from the last year of the 2010s, and to be carefully crafted by the talented Bong Joon-ho! Will I buy it from the Criterion? Nah, the 4K format is good enough. Parasite is the only film I logged in so many times over and over. Well that and Joker. We as Americans don’t need to do a remake of it, it’s incredible the way it was made, and be remembered for generations of cinephiles! And if that happens, we might as well need to make a petition before we let the disgraceful, disgusting, and despicable bastards of Hollywood make it happen!
625. Yorum: rich people discuss me
626. Yorum: yeah i’m at a loss for words
627. Yorum: feels like i've not watched a film until now
628. Yorum: I wish I didn't watch that inferior Simpsons parody first.
629. Yorum: Do I even need to get into a preamble about the value and impact of Parasite? Is there truly anything that hasn't already been said about Bong Joon-ho's magnum opus? Could I have picked a better film to reel in my 23rd birthday? The answer to all of these questions is probably no, but after two meme reviews and a third separate watch, it feels like the fourth viewing of this masterpiece is due for a proper evaluation on my part.
631. Yorum: Parasite. 2019. Directed by Bong Joon Ho.
632. Yorum: This is such a great film. Put it on with my friends as neither of them had seen it. So great to see their reactions as I watched it by myself before. Wish I could have seen this in a packed cinema on my first viewing.
633. Yorum: For me Parasite is a great fable about social inequality and also the ingenious mix of genres.
634. Yorum: It's an experience. A bloody suspenseful one at that. I couldn't say much more without feeling like I'm ruining it.
635. Yorum: Saw this for my fourth time with friends.
636. Yorum: what. am i not gonna give this shit five stars. come on.
639. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is a Discreet Charm of Bourgeoisie with a thriller spin. At its heart it's about how the poor cannibalize each other in hopes of living a lifestyle of the rich instead of demanding any change from the disparity between rich and poor. And though there are lots of twists, it's the buildup first-to-middle act, pre-twists, that is probably Bong's finest work as a filmmaker. It is precise, machine-like, and funny. And most biting in this satire is the respect that the rich receive simply for being rich, seemingly possessing no identifiable human qualities other than their impressive house by a famous architect.
640. Yorum: korean films continue raising the bar for cinema.
641. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho Films Ranked
642. Yorum: “Does Oxford have a major in document forgery? Your sister would be top of the class.”
643. Yorum:  You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if you kill someone or betray your country, nobody cares. Got it?
644. Yorum: World Tour 2020
645. Yorum: The first time I watched this, I knew it was something special. It was like nothing I had ever seen before, and as I’m making my way through Bong’s filmography, I realized that’s just a common reaction to his movies. No matter genre he makes a film within, he does something brand new with it. He’s truly a treasure. 
646. Yorum: ✌️jessica, ✌️only child,✌️
648. Yorum: that sudden shift from comedy to horror?? what a treat
649. Yorum: I am utterly stunned and completely in awe of what I’ve just watched. Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite incapsulates the poverty scale like no other film I’ve ever seen; there are no heroes and villains; there’s no happy ending; there’s just a never-ending ladder of disparity, which everyone climbs to eat just a single crum of wealth.
651. Yorum: I watched this with my aunt who had never seen it and is pretty wealthy. So of course, at the end, she turned to me and goes, “That was weird.” And I was so shocked! “Weird?” I gasped. “He didn’t have to kill Mr. Park. He did nothing wrong!” 
652. Yorum: I missed this back in February when it was released in cinemas (remember those things?) and I guess I'm pretty late to the party now but, I held out and went in knowing as little as possible and now, well this is likely to be my favourite film of 2020.
653. Yorum: It’s slowly becoming one of my favourite films honestly..
654. Yorum: Mr Kim cured my anxiety by reassuring me that I can't go wrong if I have no plan.
655. Yorum: I can’t explain how tense this movie made me feel. Never really seen anything quite like it.
656. Yorum: Pretty friggin' great. Twisted and hilarious, on the edge of my seat for 80% of the runtime, thought-provoking and filled to the brim with great performances, I can totally understand why this film is garnering it's praise.
657. Yorum: As a fan of Bong Joon-ho I was very excited to see this film and I'm very glad I was able to as soon as I could, especially considering I was particularly excited to see him making another Korean language film. This film somehow lived up to the already immense hype surrounding it from Cannes and elsewhere, blowing me away and being probably his best film and possibly the best film of the year.
658. Yorum: ‪My favourite film this year so far! Watch it when you get the chance! Never saw anything quite like it. Can‘t wait to watch it again!
659. Yorum: (While I don’t blatantly spoil anything specific, I wouldn’t read this if you would like to go in completely blind, I suppose.) 
660. Yorum: Woah. Holy Shit. The consequences of the socioeconomic classes inequality portrayed in a horrific and vicious way, that is political but executed in a subtle way, spoken through this modern cinematic masterpiece. Bong Joon-Ho take a bow.
661. Yorum: Maybe the real parasite was the friends we made along the way.
664. Yorum: Why do I have to watch every movie twice to realize how brilliant it is?
665. Yorum: 🍑's am I right? If you know, you know. 
666. Yorum: class consciousness in the 2010s deserves a lucid and incisive critique of capital and the way it warps our minds, and this trite 'Us'-level allegory ain't it, fam.
667. Yorum: 12 year old me after a sleepover at my rich friend’s house (i ate all her candy)
669. Yorum: An incredible piece of stand-out foreign cinema. Utterly compelling, and packed with brilliant artistic choices and symbolism. This is a masterpiece.
670. Yorum: How to spell bong joon-ho:
671. Yorum: Masterfully created. What else could you give it except 5 stars? Mickey 17 has a lot to live up to.
672. Yorum: the most fascinating thing about this film is that before watching it, you think “oh it cannot possibly be THAT good” then you watch it and it's actually even better than people say it is.
674. Yorum: It’s cool when the Academy gets it right
675. Yorum: i'll never get tired of watching this
677. Yorum: Before Parasite is done, you will ask the film, "what the fuck," and you will be glad you did.
678. Yorum: “Don’t call me sis, you filthy bitch!”
679. Yorum: and that’s on peaches
680. Yorum: Fantastic, loved it, Joon-ho nails this one, perfect mixture of suspense, terror and comedy. The only thing keeping me from giving it 5 stars is how much of the movie was telegraphed. But still a great ride.
681. Yorum: MASTERPIECE! Parasite deserves all the praise and awards it has received and more. It is really refreshing to see a truly deserving movie receive this kind of feedback.
682. Yorum: i could not understand what they were saying
683. Yorum: Arguably co-writer and director Bong Joon-ho's most accomplished work as a filmmaker to date, Parasite is a film that not only lives up to the immense hype leading up to it (well, mainly from Film Twitter and mutuals) but somehow manages to surpass and even shatter it, rewarding its viewers with an uncomfortably hilarious, unapologetically bleak, and powerfully acted satirical thriller that's as wildly unpredictable as it is staggeringly well-crafted.
684. Yorum: i’d be right next to ki-jung smoking that cigarette cause what the hell else can you do?
685. Yorum: Here’s the announcement: I’m so proud to announce tonight’s relaunch of The Global Film Podcast! Featuring weekly roundtables with Letterboxd users, critics from Variety, Indiewire among others, and cinephiles, & filmmakers, we discuss everything from new releases to awards predictions and more! Check out our slate for the rest of the year, and scroll down to the end if you’d like to sign up to guest star on a future episode!
687. Yorum: I don't have much to say that you haven't already heard. So, I'm just gonna say that the dog under the bed is what I call cinema.
688. Yorum: The People Under The Stairs
691. Yorum: 2019 was THE year of the movies.
693. Yorum: You know... the word “masterpiece” gets thrown around a lot these days.
694. Yorum: - You know what kind of plan that never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
696. Yorum: Watched this one with a friend—finished at 5am and then immediately proceeded to walk to the World Trade Center and got back at 8am
697. Yorum: Previous review here
698. Yorum: Yes, I’m watching this movie late, and part of me didn’t think it could live up to the hype... but I was pleasantly surprised - top 20 for sure. 
699. Yorum: Rich people are naive. No resentment. No creases on them.
700. Yorum: This is the Citizen Kane of films
701. Yorum: A perfect movie exists and it’s called Parasite.
703. Yorum: Parasite is two sides of a cinematic coin; the first half is a rousing character-driven social satire, the second is an expertly directed social thriller. The first viewing I felt a little distanced from the second half because the character peelbacks stopped and it was all reaction to a heightened situation. On the second viewing, knowing where it’s going, what Bong Joon-ho achieves hits me harder. It’s two halves about the haves and have nots, two genres, and two viewings make the whole even more rewarding... even if it’s all a little too perfect for me to stand up and applaud (the whole elaborate plan goes off without a hitch and first sign of trouble dad says, “plans don’t work!”)
704. Yorum: This is so fucking peak fuckkkkk. Bong Joon-Ho 
705. Yorum: well, wasn’t that peachy
706. Yorum: Without a doubt, the easiest 5 star rating I’ve ever given. This film exceeds expectations on every possible level, even on a second watch. It is the most popular, and the highest rated film on Letterboxd for good reason. It appeals to the cinephile crowd by being filled with allegory and metaphor while exploring and questioning the underlining fundamentals of the systems that have always been in place, and it also appeals to general audiences by being one of the most wildly entertaining movies ever, excellent usage of editing, and an original premise which is fascinating enough to keep your interest for the entire film. I find the juxtaposition of the opposite social classes to be pretty spot on at times, but it’s effective nonetheless. If I had to say one negative thing about this film, it would be about how Bong portrays the lower class Kim family as people who are only capable of getting by through living a con life. But I also don’t fully disagree with this portrayal because in a way, the lower class is powerless to the hierarchies of a capitalist society. But really, Bong portrays this family as lazy over anything, unmotivated to even complete the simple task of folding pizza boxes. But this misportrayal of an entire social class is quickly lost in the insanity of the turn that the film takes in the second half. 
707. Yorum: (Spoilers ahead)
708. Yorum: jesus fucking christ i really didn’t expect this film to get this insane! but what else should i expect from bong joon-ho at this point. goat.
709. Yorum: One of the most perfect films of the decade , maybe even the 21st century. I don't even think it has any flaws, like at all. It broke my heart how ki-woo told ki-jung how she's the only person in their family who looks like they can live in the rich house only for her to be eliminated first. The dad saving the mom's medal during the flood...ommgg💔❤️‍🩹. Dasong was also a genius, it's only that they never focused on him, the painting, the morse code, connecting how the four were related by the same smell. And when ki-woo writes his father a letter about his plans, how he's going to earn money, join university, get a career, marriage and buy the house so that he'll be able to walk up the stairs even after his father warned him about plans...i sure felt that.
710. Yorum: Just watched this again with my band today and Jesus this movie so good. Such an incredibly disarming film that starts so wildly funny but pivots gruesomely fast to fully hit you in the gut with a wild twist and ending. Even on the twelfth time of watching this movie, Parasite hits! The symbolism of upstairs vs downstairs, the wealth gap, and extreme privilege of the upper class in South Korea is so well depicted through the visuals and script. Cannot imagine a movie more worthy of its best picture title.
711. Yorum: you know shit is good when every letter in the title is also in the word "masterpiece"
712. Yorum: Can never see this one enough times. Saw it with the Family and they loved it. Somehow gets better every time I see it and notice something new each time. One of the most unique films I've ever seen.
713. Yorum: Even after eight watches, the peach montage gives me CHILLS!!!
714. Yorum: Academy, you gave this movie the awards it deserves. RESPECT!
716. Yorum: Really Great -> 2019 Ranking (#3/132)
717. Yorum: I didn’t believe the hype.
718. Yorum: A personal fuck-you to anyone who completed their “best films of the 2010s” list in the first half of 2019. Bong Joon-Ho really saved the best for last huh ?
719. Yorum: Fuck. That was beyond mesmerizing.
720. Yorum: I have been sick as a dog and found out I’ve got a parasite. So, what else is there to do, other than rewatch the academy award best picture winner ‘Parasite’. And let me tell you this still bangs! Really is a classic
721. Yorum: I wonder what Bong Joon-ho's servants think of this film, or the domestic staff of Milky Lee, the billionaire heiress who funded it (her grandaddy made Samsung)? I'm beginning to think the reason Korean cinema is taking off in the West is because they couldn't get away with this vile trash if they made it here - the servants would most likely be non-white or immigrants, and the media class would have to pretend they were outraged by a film about deranged, cartoon villains who cheat and lie their way into a wealthy family's good graces, leading to manslaughter, among many other crimes.
722. Yorum: It’s a miracle I avoided ALL spoilers for this for the best part of 2 years and managed to go in COMPLETELY blind! And thank god... what a picture!
724. Yorum: My friends (who don’t like foreign films) were flat out SCREAMING the entire second half so I’ll count that as a win.
725. Yorum: The spaces we occupy. The artful ones where the light and warmth streams in. The lower ones, where the shit water flows. What those of us below won’t do to get above. What those of us above cannot comprehend is below. “So metaphorical.”
727. Yorum: ok but i’d be petty if someone gave me the job of tutoring their crush because then they “wouldn’t have to worry”… like fym???
729. Yorum: Homes that's just an average birthday party at the Christensen house 🙄🙄
730. Yorum: The last 10 minutes of this film might be the best I’ve ever seen. Chills.
732. Yorum: remember when tr*mp watched this but shit on it because he had to read subtitles
734. Yorum: "They are nice because they are rich."
736. Yorum: Fest hyperbole seems to already be at such a level that I feel like I can’t be honest about my response to this movie.
737. Yorum: "[...] Bong’s socioeconomic themes—also present in Lee’s Burning, another tale of class warfare, as well as the countless Korean shows and films pitting the haves against the have-nots—can feel like a specifically Korean cinematic interest. That can be credited to South Korea’s uniquely rapid economic boom, which largely happened under the military dictatorship of President Park Chung-hee, who aggressively prioritized economic growth over civil liberties. “I turned 50 this year and during the past half-century, I watched Korea develop into a pretty rich nation,” Bong said. “But, like Germany and first-world nations of Europe, the richer the country gets, the more the relative gap between the rich and the poor becomes wider. And so you get this polarization. And I think Korea is the same.”
738. Yorum: I’ve been watching a bunch of silly shit recently soI decided to watch this Oscar winning movie, so I don’t get sucked in😭.
739. Yorum: letterboxd is a massively-multiplayer online strategy game where you, your friends, and a bunch of really annoying people seek to apply labels (one, from a selection of ten) to rows in a database. each row is associated with an object from the set that roughly corresponds to "movies" (already a kind of hazy term, further confused on letterboxd by having some miniseries, web animations, promotional videos, but not really individual commercials most of the time, or tv shows)
740. Yorum: "Once you overcome the one-inch-tall barrier of subtitles, you'll be introduced to so many more amazing films." - Bong Joon-ho
742. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan that never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned."
743. Yorum: Saw this on a first date... true cinephile. Don’t even know where to start with the compliments but I will say that this is far and away the best film of the year and consists of perhaps one of the best written climaxes ever put to film. It’s Bong Joon-ho in total command of his craft and it’s excellent to watch.
744. Yorum: this movie never fails to amaze me
746. Yorum: Even better the second time. The only thing, that bothered me the first time I saw it (when the daughter is about to look under the bed) is just cliché in the german-dubbed version.
747. Yorum: i can see why this move sweeped the oscars. fucking brilliant, edge of your seat type of thriller. loved every second of it.
748. Yorum: That beautiful glass window alone should win an award.
750. Yorum: “Money is an iron.”
751. Yorum: I can’t wait to show this movie to all of my friends and family and my classmates and my mailman and my pizza delivery guy and to Jessica from Illinois and to my future children and future grandchildren and all of their friends.  If you know me IRL, expect for me to make you watch this movie at some point.
752. Yorum: I dare to say that koreans make the most originals movies in the world. Such an achievement technical and scriptwise. Bong Joon-ho is probably one of the best directors working today as he shows in every movie he makes.
755. Yorum: This is just as smart and entertaining as everyone’s been hyping it up to be. I’m fucking floored!
756. Yorum: Here's to not being inevitably crushed by your own metaphorical rock 🍻
757. Yorum: As PARASITE chugs along, it drifts through relationship and situational comedy and then through crime thriller tropes as if that was what the film was for. What makes PARASITE work so well is that these genre elements, which drive many films along on their own, are mere cinematic furnishings in Bong Joon Ho's mini epic. As engaging as so many of the scenes are, PARASITE is committed to much more than amusement and genre filmmaking. It is an essay on South Korea class society and how they feed off one another.
758. Yorum: One of the best of 2019, Parasite is even better upon rewatch! 
759. Yorum: Just as the Kims attach themselves to the Parks, Parasite latches on to you and takes advantages of your ignorance of its transformative nature it has in store by gripping you for the first section of its runtime with an original premise which creates room for elaborate dark humour and suspense. Bong Joon-ho utilizes the normal world of both families and defines them so impeccably as the movie ever so often falls back on the characteristics of each individual at a later, more crucial point in time to draw the story towards an unforeseen direction. The immaculate cinematography captures the scenery of the two drastically contrasting households as the Kim family gradually infests their counterpart, benefiting from their gullibility as their living standards start to increase. The process of the parasite slowly acquiring and taking away resources from his host is figuratively presented in a grounded, credible way and realized with a pacing that keeps Parasite brisk.
760. Yorum: So many twists and turns i could barely keep up
761. Yorum: As someone who doesn’t watch a ton of foreign movies, It was hard for me to push myself to watch it. It had a shit ton of hype and i finally came around to watching it and man, this movie is insane. It has some of the best cinematography of 2019 and some outstanding performances from its amazing cast. 
762. Yorum: The most overrated movie I've seen in a long time. Had I run into it without its attendant hype, "Parasite" would've offered nice surprises. But it comes with the baggage of winning the Palm D'Or--I misspell it on purpose because I'm a poor hick, not a rich bastard like the people who attend that festival--and the Oscar nomination for Best Picture of 2020. The expectations are too high.
764. Yorum: Over the last decade plus, Joon-Ho Bong has been mastering his craft quietly and judiciously. Like Chan-Wook Park, the other mainstream Korean filmmaker whose films have snuck into American pop culture, Bong's *Korean* films have just gotten better as his voice grows clearer.
765. Yorum: You know what kind of plan that never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
768. Yorum: Wow, this is brilliant and I may write more about it someday, but for now I've got newly developed trust issues and trauma to deal with 😱😱😱
769. Yorum: I'm not sure if a foreign language film has ever won best picture, but Parasite would definitely deserve it. Not sure the academy has the balls for it tho. Well at least it will win best foreign language film.
770. Yorum: what can i say other than this film is absolutely perfect
771. Yorum: 🍑 Click Here to Read My OG Review! 🍑
772. Yorum: You guys ever think about how 2019 is probably the best year for film this century? And maybe even the best ever? Because I’ve been thinking about that a lot lately for whatever reason.  
773. Yorum: My schedule will return to normal tomorrow but I do have to say "RIP Lee Sun-Kyun" at this moment. The apparent reason for the death: awful no matter if he was innocent or guilty of that charge. He was great in this film and sometime soon will be a review of another film of his.
774. Yorum: I was way too overly harsh the first time I watched this movie. I am glad I gave it a re-watch, though. I am still not as high on this film as the vast majority of the population, but it still is quite brilliant.
775. Yorum: A dazzling and brilliant display of mastery of acting, tone, editing, cinematography, and dialogue (with an ending a tad long, but Guernica ain’t perfect either), a movie that tells its tale with panache and intelligence and makes you laugh and gasp in horror in the same scene. So with that out of the way - I’m a Korean American who has been conflicted about his heritage his whole life and a fan of movies who has cared about the Academy Awards more than I should for almost as long, and when Jane Fonda announced this movie won the big enchilada at the Oscars, I wept so openly that the dude standing next to me at the Oscar party I attended kept peering over at me to see if I was okay. Thanks for reading!
776. Yorum: Dad, today I made a plan - a fundamental plan. I'm going to earn money, a lot of it. University, a career, marriage, those are all fine, but first I'll earn money. When I have money, I'll buy the house. On the day we move in, Mom and I will be in the yard. Because the sunshine is so nice there. All you'll need to do is walk up the stairs. Take care until then. So long.
777. Yorum: Didn't actually rewatch.
779. Yorum: mm very metaphorical!
781. Yorum: I feel bad about not being able to write a long, thought out review, but really go into seeing this knowing as little as possible. But things I liked:
782. Yorum: Move over, Call Me by Your Name, there's a new peach movie in town.
783. Yorum: PARASITE is a twisted, effortlessly tense & absolutely thrilling masterpiece of a film filled with phenomenal performances from everyone involved. Easily a career best by the great Joon-Ho Bong. I could not of been more blown away by this film, it is perfect. The title “parasite” is so incredibly accurate for what the story is going for, it couldn’t be more fitting. I would definitely recommend going in completely blind, as I did. I can guarantee that you will not guess where this story goes. There were a few times in my head I thought “oh this is gonna happen” and I couldn’t have been more wrong every time. Halfway through the film it almost switches genres completely while somehow keeping a consistent tone, it’s incredible. From that point on it is RIVETING. I can’t recall a time where I felt so much anxiety during a film. It also is surprisingly really funny, lots of subtle dark humor that was completely up my alley. I was really quite emotional by the end of the film, I was really emotionally invested. This film got a few tears out of me. I was not prepared for this film at all & I really can’t even begin to explain how insane it is. The production design, cinematography, score, editing, acting, directing, screenplay are all AMAZING, this film is coming for all the Oscars.
784. Yorum: Masterful in every sense of the word. The entire film was a god-damn symphony. Whether it's the meticulously crafted scenes of horror, the pulsating thrills that are as excruciating and as brilliant as you'd expect with Korean cinema to the well-written social critiques and attitudes that Bong Joon-Ho so subtly pushes to the forefront of the film, you really can't knock it.
786. Yorum: Quite simply perfect. Every shot, every word spoken, every peach all meant something. The switch up this film takes is absolutely genius. The first half is an excellent comedy-drama and the second half when it becomes a thriller only elevates the film. But the overarching message surrounding the class system is so prominent and portrayed better than any other film I’ve seen. 
787. Yorum: Gonna be my last log for a while because of summer holiday, so going out with a Bong.
788. Yorum: When a newly released film receives critical acclaim, even to the point of ending up on Letterboxd's top 250 list (currently at #7 no less!), it's easy to enter it with caution, assuming people just get caught up in the hype and exaggerate it.
789. Yorum: what’s more terrifying: the “ghost” scene or the sex scene?
790. Yorum: in all aspects except physical i am a part of kim family
792. Yorum: More like “PARA-SEEEEEJT”! Don’t worry; the Danes will understand it and cherish this review. And one day, they’ll do a t-shirt of it.
794. Yorum: Thank fuck they put this film on mexican theaters.
795. Yorum: Holy. Fucking. Shit. Talk about an emotional roller-coaster, my audience was amazing and enhanced the experience so much. There was laughter, there were shocks, there was happiness, sadness, anger, pity, horror, there were scenes where the intensity inside the theater was almost unbearable. The most mesmerizing film I've seen in a very long time. This is what I call "cinema", folks!! Truly incredible and I cannot stop thinking about how powerful each scene is and how there is not a single scene that is more important than another, even the climax is as entertaining as the rest of the entire film. This is really a great year for movies.
796. Yorum: Wow at loss of words right now. What a powerful portrayal of income inequality which is a theme anyone can relate too no matter where you live. 
798. Yorum: I can’t talk to anyone about my problems, because my problems are all financial. Everybody who cares doesn’t have the means to help. Everybody who has the means to help doesn’t care. So for the first time in my life this year I have practiced not really talking about my problems …JK I talk about my problems all the time, but not the financial. I talk about the behavioral problems that have arisen in me while dealing with all this, and I justifiably rage at apathetic, comfortable people because apathetic, comfortable people deserve to have their peace taken away (since they won’t give up anything else). 
800. Yorum: who would’ve thought bong joon ho would peak this high again? this is one of his best films. outstanding
801. Yorum: Don't know what was more surreal —the fact that Bong-Hive made a totally gonzo Marxist fable that bends genre in weird and unpredictable ways, or the fact that Werner Herzog sat in front of me and offered his silhouette to frame the film like an MST3000 episode. PARASITE (2019) is exactly what its title suggests, only you're never entirely sure who's the leech, and who's the host. That’s part of its brilliance. Your perceptions are constantly being toyed with, in one moment rooting for those at the bottom of the food chain, while in another moment weirdly sympathizing with those who occupy the spacious top. It is clear, however, that the dynamics between upper and lower classes are ever-evolving, swinging back and forth, trading places in a system that eats its own and starves them from ever filling their financial bellies. It's a mean, scandalous examination of class rage by way of Buñuel, the way it pits poverty against affluence and draws you into its cockroach-ridden, Battle Royale standoff. Could have been a little more lean and less overstuffed, but this rotten parable of class inequity largely works through the home invasion genre to deliver a creepy thriller that bites, and social commentary that stings.
802. Yorum: After a short message about actress Park So-dam, this movie was recommended to me by sci-fi Wasabi.
803. Yorum: A masterpiece, that's all
804. Yorum: Bong joon-ho’s “parasite is my fav foreign film
805. Yorum: It's just nuts how perfect this film is.
807. Yorum: First review
808. Yorum: "They are rich but still nice."
809. Yorum: this isn’t a eat the rich movie, this is the eat the rich movie.
810. Yorum: "Look at this. Your pulse is racing. The heart doesn't lie. An exam is like slashing through a jungle. Lose that momentum and you're finished. The answer to #24? I don't care. Slashing through the exam, dominating it! That's all I care about. What you need is vigor."
811. Yorum: had only seen this once - in theaters - and i was a lil worried this wouldn’t be as good on rewatch knowing all the bonkers stuff coming down the pike. but guess what!! SHES STILL GOT IT BABEY
812. Yorum: ....and they were PARASITES
813. Yorum: happy easter, fuck the rich!!!! even better the second time around, still in complete awe of bong’s mind!!!
814. Yorum: the poor family in this be like “and that’s on peaches”
815. Yorum: “She’s rich, but still nice.”
816. Yorum: bong joon-ho: I support rich people's right... rich people's right to shut the fuck up!
817. Yorum: AAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH the excellence! Pure excellence!!!!!
821. Yorum: Watched in the cinema
822. Yorum: "This is so metaphorical!"
823. Yorum: One minute I’m laughing my ass off and the next I’m having a panic attack. 
824. Yorum: First of all , i Just wanna say that "Memories of Murder" is Still My Favorite Joon-ho Bong Film, But that doesn't Make this any less of a masterpiece in my Book, Definitely One of the best films of this year,what a superb Mix of comedy and tragedy, Happiness and Sadness, joy and sympathy.
825. Yorum: Well, I'm drinking the Kool-Aid on this one.
826. Yorum: I had to show this masterpiece to my mother
827. Yorum: I've said it before and I'll say it again: it's fucking Parasite, what can I say that hasn't been said a thousand times before? How the film blends the comedy and thriller genre nearly perfectly, in such a way that I honestly can't compare it to anything else? That the set design, performances, and direction all help craft this beautiful tale of class separation and desperation, aided by the wonderfully layered script, metaphors, and foreshadowing you could easily overlook on the thousandth viewing? Hell, I don't think I've seen a film that will so obviously go down as a classic, and I've still yet to see one top this.
828. Yorum: starting off my birthday with a perfect movie! that’s how everyone should celebrate! so thankful to see 25 years. wouldn’t have made it this long without movies in my life ❤️
829. Yorum: It’s my 17th birthday, so I decided to watch Parasite for a third time and here’s my thoughts:
830. Yorum: Bong Joon-hos best picture winning masterpiece is completely unique and absolutely masterfully directed. With great dark humor and a clever use of it's themes of classism and bigotry, absolutely great character building, beautiful cinematography, great dialouge and clever editing. As it starts everything seems pretty normal but then the more it goes on the more it just keeps taking you to different places you probably wont see coming and it's all the better for it.
831. Yorum: Best. Fucking. Picture. Indeed.
833. Yorum: Winner of the 2019 Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay, Best Director, Best International Film, and Best Picture.
834. Yorum: Parasite is a brilliant film, a compelling story, excellently told, full of irony, satire, nuance and dramatic tension. Parasite is an intriguing look at class and privilege. It's evident that the Kim's can never truly ascend to the dizzy, luxuried heights of their masters, the Park's, but in a world where so many have so little and wealth is in the hands of the few, who then are the Parasites?
835. Yorum: The People Under the Stairs. "Parasite" cleverly re-invents the home invasion thriller as a con man lark. Bong Joon-ho spends the first hour lulling the viewer with sharp comedy and social satire before revealing the movie's subterranean depths with a Hitchcockian flair. If I'm underselling the film's many delights, it may be because the director makes his delicate balancing act of humor and terror seem effortless.
837. Yorum: Don’t just eat the rich, suck their blood. They did it first.
839. Yorum: “But until then... just hang in there.”
842. Yorum: The coda is more satisfying the second time around, when you understand that this is ultimately Ki-woo's story (the son of the Kim family).
843. Yorum: Chaotic harmony.
844. Yorum: I guess you could say I’m kind of an expert in foreign films 🧐
846. Yorum: There are evil rich people, then there are those who are just so oblivious to even the most important realities of life, and sometimes that's just as bad. So metaphorical but with a message so clear and told so distinctly!
847. Yorum: One of the best films ever made 
848. Yorum: 4ever wishing i could just step foot in that house
849. Yorum: it's my 21st birthday and what better way to celebrate than watch the best film ever made !
850. Yorum: This movie is the literal fucking definition of absolute fucking tense
851. Yorum: - Me watching the first half of the film: How could this movie become more PERFECT than what it sounds to be like!
852. Yorum: To quote one of my least favorite films of the past few years.
854. Yorum: Yep it’s still perfect
855. Yorum: Just peachy
856. Yorum: It’s clear to me from the Korean cinema I’ve had the pleasure of watching that there is a real interest in telling stories that revolve around social classes and the tensions that lie there when they collide. Parasite was able to find some compelling, unique pain, urgency, and humor in that dynamic unlike anything I’ve seen before.
857. Yorum: It's hard going into a movie new enough that it's not been distributed outside of its home country yet wins the Palme d'Or and quickly rises to the 6th spot on this site's Top 250 list. What makes it especially interesting though is that it's a Korean movie, which by now has been known for being a little quirky to Westerners. I've watched Korean cinema for some time now and some can feel a little over-hyped by those unfamiliar with that landscape. My biggest fear was that the same would happen to Parasite, but I'm very thankful to say that it plays into its industry's quirks but then transcends it.
859. Yorum: why would they get freaky on the couch literally anyone could walk in and see that 😭
860. Yorum: What The Fuck. PARASITE ≠ PARADISE 🔥🔥🔥
861. Yorum: I’m a fucking idiot. I just now realized that this mfkr has a movie called THE HOST and a different movie called PARASITE. And I feel even dumber because I don’t know what it all means. Why Bong, why?? They have to be connected somehow. They have to be.
862. Yorum: Top notch film: every character is sympathetic in their own way, the concept is strong but doesn't overpower the film with allegory, good ending, slightly upsetting, terribly funny, very beautiful. To top it off, it actually bothers with denouement! I had thought that was a dead art. The threads it does not tie together are as haunting as the ones it does.
863. Yorum: the porn bots on here liking all of my reviews when no else will>>>
864. Yorum: One of my favorite theatrical experience ever... the main reason? Cause I literally went into the movie having no idea what it was about nor seen any of the film’s trailers. When you go into something like that and it turns out to be great across the board, it leaves an even bigger impression upon you...surprise is one of the biggest reasons we watch cinema.
865. Yorum: One question what did I just witness? 
866. Yorum: And y’all thought peaches peaked on “Call Me By Your Name”.
867. Yorum: took my mum to see this best oscar picture winner 2020!
868. Yorum: Parasite has received universal critical acclaim due to some bullshit capitalism metaphor that no one will shut the fuck up about. However, if you look past this and truly analyze the film you will find that, outside its solid pacing, well written, consistent characters, and unique story that manages to smoothly merge a comical and fun first half with a much more sinister and thrilling second half, there is little to like about this foreign feature. The fact that its final half hour manages to be quite unexpected despite its incredibly meticulous set up is also an achievement deserving of no recognition. Adding to these numerous failures is the fact that I couldn’t understand a single fucking word any of the characters were saying. Really have to question the Acedemy on this one. 0 out of 5 stars.
870. Yorum: 3rd watch. Saw this in a theater originally. Still holding up beautifully. Craftily constructed, beautifully shot. Insightful, sad, funny, strange. Very pleasant watch. Is it better than Memories of Murder? What the hell do I know?
872. Yorum: movie of the decade movie of the century movie of my entire life
874. Yorum: Black and White edition.
876. Yorum: When I first saw this, I was blown away. I had never seen anything like it but a few months past and I thought it was just the typical first viewing blues but my god, I was not disappointed this time. I’m so glad I rewatched it.
878. Yorum: I may not have loved this AS much as most people did, but obviously it's pretty fantastic. Bong Joon-Ho is great and once again shows he's somewhat in a league of his own, even if just for his signature "genre-mashing" style of writing/filmmaking.
879. Yorum: Rich people... No creases on them.
880. Yorum: Somehow I went into this movie blind, knowing literally nothing about the plot or anything besides that.
881. Yorum: It's the same film as the first time I saw it, yet I could feel something different as I pressed play on Parasite this time around. Something palpable, like it carried a different weight post-Oscars rather than just prior to the award ceremony when it was the underdog that surely wouldn't bust through as the first foreign film ever to win the top prize. It occurred to me how unfair this was, to view the same work of art in a different light simply because it received recognition that elevated it even higher than simply a work acclaimed critically and the first picture out of Korea to ever receive a nomination from the Academy, which is remarkable if you consider their rich history of cinema. I couldn't help but think of the box office success Parasite has received, specifically since Oscar night, with so many people seeking it out knowing that it had just swept the major categories of Original Screenplay, Director and Picture. Such lofty expectations created by the award season narrative, to sit in a theater not just expecting good nor great but the best. The good news is, if there is a film out there to rise to such expectations for an audience, a film that truly has something for everyone as it pleases both on a surface level and also with so much to say regarding income inequality and class warfare, Bong Joon-Ho's Parasite is that picture. For me, with this second viewing cementing its place firmly, it truly was the best picture of 2019.
882. Yorum: I watched this with my Grandparents when it got to the credits my Grampy saw Bong Joon-Hoo and said "Bong Joojoo that's a funny name.".
883. Yorum: I'm not lying, this might be the greatest film I've ever seen. Like I'm finding it a hard time to put into words how amazed I am by this movie. Everything about it is so well executed that it makes me reconsider almost every other film I've given a 5 star rating. Just a truly unique take on the social class structure storyline with such well written characters. Both families are clearly defined and unlikable without ever being too much. The cinematography is gorgeous, so many shots that are stuck in my head and the amount of scenes that impressed me with how long they went on with no cuts is too much to count on my hands. Loved the soundtrack, great piano pieces and knows how to hit emotional beats with the sinister undertones throughout. The themes of the story are very much present all throughout, leaving me thinking quite a bit on how much money changes someone and how events can leave a impact on people differently depending on their upbringing / status. The ending left me with my mouth hanging for a good 20 minutes in awe. Just a perfect film and one I want to put right back on and rewatch already. 5/5 perfection and has definitely felt like something that has changed me. I highly recommend everyone see this at least once (and I know I'm very late to this party) and honestly think it'll be a while until I see something of this calibur.
886. Yorum: How is this STILL so good and how am I STILL picking up on new stuff? God-tier, once-in-a-generation filmmaking.
887. Yorum: Park So-dam if you read this im free on Thursday night and would like to hang out. Please respond to this and then hang out with me on Thursday night when I’m free
888. Yorum: seeing this on an imax screen felt like I was watching it for the first time again. god bless bong joon ho and the contributions he has made to film. we are not worthy.
889. Yorum: In the theatre when it ended, a woman started to applaud and screamed "I don't care! It was so good!"
891. Yorum: Reviewed on Cinema Eclectica.
892. Yorum: part of my 16x4 — Directors' list;
893. Yorum: Infinitely more fun when you’re in a full theatre of people who have zero idea what is going to happen, and getting to hear all the gasps, “oh no!”s and claps. 
894. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho’s black comedy thriller about an unemployed family who find themselves getting involved in an unexpected incident. In Korean with English subtitles.
895. Yorum: I mean, it's a Bong Joon-Ho movie alright- social commentary, formal precision, hairpin genre turns, cartoonish excess juxtaposed with brutal violence, the works. His sense of humor isn't 100% aligned with mine (although it hits more often than it misses, especially once the script finds its groove), and this is both entirely too obvious and overly self-aware ("so metaphorical", etc.), but I can't say there were many moments where I wasn't having fun- I'd rather be watching People Under The Stairs, but that's true of most movies, so I won't hold that against Bong & company. None of his flicks have had much sticking power for me, and I don't think this is the one that will, but it certainly further convinces me that eventually he and I will see perfectly eye to eye (Memories of Murder's my guess). All the same, Parasite's certainly a blast while it lasts.
896. Yorum: when i got my tickets the woman at the register was like “3 tickets for paradise” and you know what? she was right
898. Yorum: Turns out the biggest parasite of all was capitalism.
899. Yorum: Director Bong's best movie. I saw it last night, and can't stop thinking about it. I will definitely be watching a second time. It feels like there have been a lot of movies from around the world in the last decade circling similar themes and stories, but PARASITE drops the mic.
900. Yorum: When viewing a film like this, the less you know about it, the better.
901. Yorum: I have some opinions about this movie. don't judge, just hear me out.
902. Yorum: “it’s quite cruel and sad, but I thought it was being real and honest with the audience. you know and i know — we all know that this kid isn’t going to be able to buy that house. i just felt that frankness was right for the film, even though it’s sad.” - bong joon-ho
903. Yorum: I mean what more can you say other than it’s a masterpiece. This is Bong’s magnum opus, a gold standard of genre-bending and the perfect gateway into Korean cinema. Perfectly directed, well-written and so goddamn funny and also a surprisingly terrifying social thriller when you least expect it. It rules, man.
904. Yorum: So! Today is my birthday, and I decided to watch the popular not English movie, and like, it was KINDA OK, I guess. Not as good as Spider-Man 3
905. Yorum: Really good premises worry me a little bit. When someone tells me that I need to go into a film blind, more often than not, it's because the brilliance of the film lies in the premise most of all. Surely that's not a bad thing on principle, but then we as viewers can conflate stellar premises and stellar films. If I needed a good series-of-events to describe to friends and develop hives around on Twitter, I'd read more literature. And I should, I'm an English major. But I don't. Film is a lot more than the premise, which is why descriptions of cleverness in a story sets me off. If all you worry about in film discussion is not spoiling the film, in my dumb bird opinion, the film might not be worth spoiling. Cool, you have a good idea for a film. Write a fuckin novel. Or compose a conceptual art rock record with spoken-word interludes. If I cared about premise, I'd be one of those guys asking 'what's the point?' to anything further left-field than Fight Club. A bad premise probably won't ruin your film. A good premise absolutely can.
906. Yorum: The hype is deserved. In my opinion, “Parasite” is Bong Joon-ho´s greatest films so far and one of the best movies of the year. The less you know about it, the bigger is the impact, so I won´t tell you much about the story. What I can tell you is that “Parasite” is a moving, entertaining, and thought-provoking tale about class differences, family, morality, and survival, and that it is full of twists, turns, and tonal shifts, mixes many genres, and makes you feel every emotion imaginable. It basically is a mixture of a Park Chan-wook mystery thriller, a Hirokazu Kore-eda family drama, and Bong Joon-ho´s trademark humor and social commentary.
907. Yorum: Imagine waking up in the middle of the night and seeing some strangers eating in your living room
908. Yorum: I really enjoyed Parasite when it first came out but felt something was missing due to my own expectations of where the story would go, but thankfully on this rewatch I can now appreciate the movie for what it is which is no more or less than a great fucking movie.
909. Yorum: writing my critical theory final paper on this movie.
912. Yorum: Absolutely brilliant. It was amazing to finally revisit this film since seeing it for the first time in cinemas. It's been long enough that I forgot some of the events that transpire, but I also got to revel on the excellence I did remember. Everything is operating at such a high level and it's all so finely tuned. Some of the standouts for me include the stunning direction, cinematography, production design and the script, which was funnier than I remembered. All the performances as well are so damn great. The casting is perfection. I think Cho Yeo-jeong as the Park mother was my favourite, she's hilarious. Exploration of the themes are also done so well. For instance, how rainfall was later seen as a blessing for the wealthy Park family, while the Kims are trudging through chest high sewer water losing what little they had. And they had to show up for work the next day! Insane. A modern masterpiece by Bong Joon-ho. Respect!
913. Yorum: Last movie of 2022 and going out with a big bang! This is so captivating from start to finish and it’s straight up *chefs kiss*! Trying to rank most shitty characters in this was a true task lol.
914. Yorum: Turns out the real parasite were the friends we made along the way..... 
915. Yorum: Films Watched in 2020 - Film 400
916. Yorum: A movie not just about rich vs poor or inequality, but about capitalism and what it does to people's bodies and souls. Not sure what to say about it that hasn't already been said much better by others. One of the best films of the last decade. Brilliant.
917. Yorum: There is no fucking way this movie can live up to the hype right? That was mindset going in and I was absolutely blown away. It's so hard to even describe what this movie is or why it's so fucking good. Simply put, it's just mesmerizing. All I could do was think about this movie and it's characters for the entire time. Just wondering what the hell is coming next. I have to rewatch it to make sure I'm not crazy.
918. Yorum: There's a lot that I feel like I can ramble on about in regards to what Bong Joon-ho achieves with Parasite after having already seen the film a total of six times at this point, but I feel like I'd only be repeating myself or whatever other people have already said better.
919. Yorum: Now I know what all the fuss is about!!!
921. Yorum: If I had all this, I would be kinder.
922. Yorum: My old school (Illinois State University) getting namedropped in this movie... rather unanticipated by me.
925. Yorum: The word masterpiece gets thrown around so often these days that I forgot what it was like to see a real one
926. Yorum: Highest recommendation to see this movie before you know ANYTHING about it. Which makes it incredibly hard to review, actually. Bong Joon-ho's instincts for class struggle crisis points are so incredibly sharp here, but nothing, be it theme or aesthetic, steps in front of the storytelling here, as this grifter family plots to scam its way into wealth-adjacency. Brick by brick, this house gets assembled and then thrillingly, shockingly, horribly gets leveled. It's funny, pointed, and exhilarating, a daring cross-pollination where "Shoplifters" meets "Gosford Park" meets "Us." Easily one of the best of the year.
927. Yorum: Still the best film of the year! It isn't often that you get a film that manages to be hilarious, tense, tender, heartbreaking, disturbing, exciting, satisfying, and bittersweet, all at the same time, the tones balanced to perfection. A third rewatch will be had around December-January, with a short-ish analysis and to see if something better has come along.
928. Yorum: I think the reason it's taken me so long to watch Parasite was out of fear. Specifically, fear that a film so revered and beloved by nearly everyone would end up disappointing me. What if my expectations were to become so high that the end product just wouldn’t be satisfying? But I finally said, ‘enough is enough’, sat down, and watched the whole thing. And after finally seeing this, it is certainly worth all the hype and then some. I don’t think I’ve seen a film so dedicated in its vision deliver an experience unlike any other. Nearly every element of the film combines to make a near perfect experience meant to denounce the societal constructs of class and capitalism. 
929. Yorum: remember when 2020 was good and this won best picture
930. Yorum: I don't know what are the chances that this movie will win Best Picture as much as I would really want it to tonight, but I may as well watch it again because I don't see myself ever getting tired of this movie.
931. Yorum: All Films Watched in 2020, Ranked / 2019 Films, Ranked / Bong Joon-ho, Ranked / 5 Star Films
932. Yorum: Yesterday I attended a roundtable discussion (okay, it was more a chairs-in-a-straight-line discussion) with the directors of the five films nominated for the Best Foreign Picture Golden Globe, namely Pedro Almodóvar (Pain and Glory), Bong Joon Ho (Parasite), Ladj Ly (Les Misérables), Céline Sciamma (Portrait of a Lady on Fire) and Lulu Wang (The Farewell), which made for an interesting and inspiring afternoon.
933. Yorum: A phenomenal film that brilliantly combines dark comedy, thriller, and social critique. The direction is superb, while the cast delivers strong performances. The film masterfully explores themes of class differences and inequality, with a gripping story that holds your attention from start to finish. It's an intelligent, emotional, and visually impressive film that rightfully earns accolades and leaves a lasting impression.
934. Yorum: film is completely subjective but objectively this was the best movie ever made
935. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. You know why? If you make a plan life never works out that way”
937. Yorum: Very Good Movie. A Bit Overrated In My Opinion But The First Half For Me Was A 10/10 But The Second Half Got A Bit Boring In My Opinion. However, This Was Still A Solid Watch With Good Plot Twists And Acting.
938. Yorum: it's okay honey. the tent'll be fine, it's from the u.s.
939. Yorum: Parasite is a film that induces every emotion imaginable. This is a damn funny movie, and I am only just now coming to realize that. I feel as though I have unlocked a new level of appreciation for this movie when it’s comedy finally clicked for me. Everyone will find different aspects of Parasite comedic, but I found the most striking comedy within the mannerisms of the mother of the rich Park family. Bong Joon-ho didn’t just decide to make this character overly gullible and reactive just for plot convenience, it shows how hilariously helpless rich people are without the working class to help keep them afloat. Parasite’s metaphor is not as black and white as people say, and has multiple layers to it such as the one I just mentioned and utilizes visual metaphor to back it up. 
940. Yorum: i know i’m like half a year late but BONG HIVE WYA?!
941. Yorum: The most telling part of the film comes at the very end. After all the culturally appropriated chaos ensues, a man looks towards capitalism with optimism. He believes that through capitalism, he can escape... from capitalism. With this hopeful naivety, we see how much this system has a hold on both the individual and society at large.
942. Yorum: I'm away from home for work for a while, so my schedule might get a bit weird (meaning I'll probably spend a lot of time in my hotel room binging movies), but I am in a bigger city than usual, so I also get access to some theater showings that I'd normally have to go out of my way for. I was very pleased to get a chance to revisit this in the theater and show that extra support for it. A thoroughly fantastic film, and easily one of the best of the year.
943. Yorum: Not only is Parasite a significant improvement over his other two most recent films, but its use of peaches as a plot device blows Call Me By Your Name out of the water.
944. Yorum: Damn this was brilliant. I went into this film not knowing much about it or the plot, and I’m glad I did, because it made it all that much more enjoyable, surprising and thrilling. 
945. Yorum: Although Bong Joon-ho has made more formidable pictures, this razor-sharp treatise on social class differences in South Korea shocks and entertains in equal measure.
946. Yorum: this movie is amazing. it’s honestly worth it for that one scene of the old housekeepers husband slowly coming up from the opening in the floor. crazy great acting and execution even if it’s a slower watch, so good
947. Yorum: Parasite is an amazingly unique and creative film that is very cleverly crafted, displaying thought provoking themes of class conflict and social inequality. Right from the opening we’re presented with wonderful visuals with top notch lighting and colour grading that is displayed throughout the entire film. 
950. Yorum: You can smell it on ‘em.
951. Yorum: Probably the best movie of this year. I was on the edge of my seat through the whole movie. Acting is so natural and trailer didn't reveal anything to me and I'm grateful for that. This is another Korean masterpiece and it reminds me a little of Oldboy. It is shame that I had to watch it online because they aren't showing it in my cinema.
952. Yorum: I already thought Parasite was perfect but on rewatch it somehow got better, can letterboxd add a 6th star??
953. Yorum: This film was completely different to what I thought it would be. I knew it would be good because of all of the high ratings and awards it got, and while yeah, it’s overrated, it was still a very good film. This movie definitely has a LOT of symbolism in it, different items and themes symbolising different things, which I really respected. I liked the idea of the film, the final few scenes were very shocking, and the ending was a little confusing but once I understood it, I liked it.
954. Yorum: I know I’m five years late but this film was fucking bananas. I didn’t really have much of an idea what it was about considering its popularity but I could have never predicted where this story ended up going
955. Yorum: Everything about this movie is brilliant
956. Yorum: I recently watched Parasite again, and it's truly a fantastic movie, a Korean movie that's a mix of drama and thriller. It's all about rich and poor families, showing how different their lives are. The director, Bong Joon-ho, is known for talking about class differences in his films. Parasite does this really well by making us laugh and feel suspense, while also showing how tough life can be for the working class in South Korea. The way the story is told, how it's directed, the speed of the movie, and how it looks on screen all come together perfectly. Every scene makes you feel something deep. The movie's message is important, especially now when the rich can escape problems by going to private islands, while the poor are losing their homes and jobs. Parasite proved that even movies with small budgets can win big awards and make people from all over the world appreciate non-English movies, once they get used to reading subtitles. While I think Bong Joon-ho made even better movies, Parasite will be remembered as his best work for a long time. People will talk about it and study it for years to come.
957. Yorum: The game. The difference between crosses and structures you never knew about. Flooding textures unto the ones over there: sadness, rage; joy. Aggression is never subtle, but mashing the controller's buttons brings an awareness over the absurdity. In this world, you saw a pizza place manager who looked like someone you knew, a singer who never wanted to be one, the local detective whose face didn't fit the role, a film reviewer who seemed old but was young, the rich who didn't feel the need to think about others or a man who thought he was content with the current life. Idealizing and realizing. And by cynical fate. My life was now in shambles and everyone was affected. The game has changed.
958. Yorum: HOLY PEACHES THIS IS A MASTERPIECE, IM LOST FOR WORDS
959. Yorum: finally sat my parents down and got them to watch parasite and oh my god...  my da, after drinking half a bottle of rosé, was fully mesmerised, the whole time spent giving his thoughts, analysis and opinions like he was one of the very participants in the directors commentary hahaha ! honestly i have never seen two people more passionate about a film before in my life ! bong joon-ho’s effect am i right ?!
960. Yorum: "Oh no, we have become the parasite!"
961. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho is a comedic genius and I feel like we don’t give him enough credit for that.
964. Yorum: Just waiting on my college friend's grandpa to lend me a wealth stone, then I can start my Get Rich Quick™ scheme.
965. Yorum: First review: letterboxd.com/thommy1801/film/parasite-2019/
967. Yorum: Watching this for a second time made it even better and showed just how incredible that this movie actually is.
968. Yorum: PARASITE is a great as everyone is saying but I would have preferred a little more Bunuel and a little less Tarantino.
969. Yorum: holy fuck
970. Yorum: Many has already said it and I am just gonna be a broken record about it: PARASITE is Bong Joon-ho magnum opus. His best film to date. Insanely unpredictable, oftentimes hilarious. In a David Ehrlich two movies combination palette manner, it’s Hirokazu Kore-Eda’s DOGTOOTH.
971. Yorum: if i stay broke a lil bit longer i’ll turn into one of them
972. Yorum: Holy shit this movie is CRAZY in the best way possible, pure art.
973. Yorum: a huge win for small house enthusiasts like myself. This is the reality that big house fans want. Spread the word.
974. Yorum: Oh lord…again? A fucking gain! Nothing new! Nothing changed! Same old shit! Same old fucking shit!
976. Yorum: I don’t think there’s anything left to be said that hasn’t been said already! Parasite is a terrific movie. It became an immediate cult hit, to the extent that I never quite had seen before. The most underrated aspect to this film (in my opinion) is the editing. In fact, I may consider it the strongest element to the film cuz it really drives the narrative forward. And honestly should’ve won the best editing Oscar. The “peach” montage is one of my favorite montages in film!
978. Yorum: I haven’t watched this in about a year and half and I forgot just how funny it really is. Before the genre shift this is more of a comedy than anything else and it’s a genuinely great one at that. Water being thrown on a drunk pisser in slow-mo, saying grace because of the bountiful Wi-Fi, literally reciting a script of complete bullshit to spew to their boss, saying that the bottom corner of a painting is the “schizophrenic area”...it’s all there. It’s all so god damn funny.
979. Yorum: ate ramen while mrs. park was eating hers, does that make us... girlfriends???
980. Yorum: this movie changed my life i’m not even kidding
981. Yorum: If you feel inspired by “Parasite” and want to move into the home of people, eat their food, use their stuff, etc. - Please don't forget this small but important detail: DO IT TO RICH PEOPLE!
982. Yorum: I FINALLY got to see this because I bought it yesterday. I sat down to watch it with my sister and words cannot describe the feeling I got after watching it. 'Parasite' is something (art, a movement, an ideology, I don't know) that is powerful and intricate. Bong Joon-Ho really violated my whole state of being. I think I went through every emotion that is possible whilst in the process of viewing this film. It starts off as a comedy then goes to drama, horror (I was scared), domestic thriller then just like a regular thriller then a heartwrenching, tear-bringing cathartic display of empowerment and importance of family! 'Parasite' seriously packs a punch. I think everything that has needed to be said about it has been said. The cast is perfect (and snubbed might I add) and the story is so twisty turny that on a second watch I probably couldn't tell you what happens next. This film is simultaneously horrifying and electrifying. Everything is right and everything is wrong at the same time. The IMPLICATIONS of what this film means...it could be analysed for centuries. Truly the best picture of 2019, they got it right.
984. Yorum: I don’t even know where to start with my review. 
985. Yorum: There is something in this for everybody. And no matter what that something is, it’s done flawlessly.
986. Yorum: You know something? I think this just might be my masterpiece
987. Yorum: If I was rich, I'd be nice too.
989. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan that never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned."
990. Yorum: This is incredible! Unbearable suspense and masterful in every sense possible. Bong joon-Ho is a great director and one of the best in modern cinema to be honest, his movies are always on top and those last minutes in this movie were really thrilling. This is the best movie of 2019 so far no doubt about it.
991. Yorum: An incredibly engaging dark comedy that also verges on the thriller genre with its great twists and turns, whose smart commentary on social class issues, and thus social status and materialism make for an entertaining, clever, suspenseful and even moving film.
992. Yorum: "If I had all this I would be kinder." - Chung-sook,
993. Yorum: Not much needs to be said to explain the ranking here. I think the Oscars speak for themselves.
994. Yorum: Ever since I first watched Parasite, and on every subsequent rewatch, the story manages to relocate itself into every nook and cranny in my brain. I spent days awake thinking about the ending, about the film and the experience. All the way back in 2020, it recontextualized my understanding of what cinema could do.
995. Yorum:  “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.”
996. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho movies ranked: boxd.it/oheD8
998. Yorum: I stopped caring about what happened to this family the moment the mother pushed a dog
999. Yorum: If you haven't seen this movie yet, please don't see the trailer and don't read anything about it, let Bong Joon Ho amaze you.
1000. Yorum: When this film was announced as an advance screening for members only at one of my favorite arthouse theatres (and for free, no less!), I pretty much cleared my schedule immediately. I had to drive for just under two hours through heinous construction and rush-hour traffic, but I knew it would be worth it (and I wasn't wrong!).
1002. Yorum: Ki-taek: “Rich people are naive. No resentments. No creases on them.”
1003. Yorum: So amazing, so layered, and so well written! Was a little confused on my first watch but I’m so glad I decided to watch this again. The 4.6 review rating proves how amazing this is! ( as of now on this date ). Something I noticed is how the movie uses lines as a metaphor of “crossing the line” of the characters which is layered incredibly well! Not only the lines but the use the stairs might represent high and low class of society. The higher you climb, the higher the class. Which leaves the lowest part the low class. Just stuff like that is so LAYERED! Metaphors in so many scenes and it’s “you see it, or you miss it.” What a film!
1004. Yorum: i don’t know how i haven’t seen this before now because hoooly shit. my expectations were extremely high going into it and i was not disappointed one bit, everything about it is just amazing. 
1005. Yorum: Brilliantly written!!
1006. Yorum: Some nice fun and games
1007. Yorum: With his latest prank, Bong Joon-hos has succeeded intellectually another chunk that skilfully spins the topics previously addressed (for example in "Snowpiercer"), sometimes even turns it upside down and shakes it up, varies and stimulates thought. An incredible cinema experience, always on the move and elegant. A time document of value. Anyone who loves the moving image and does not shy away from more complex topics, demanding theses, collages (as well as subtitles) will get into a spin for sheer joy. Brilliant all along the line and hopefully should break through the "art house" sound barrier and could at least hit something in the mainstream. Because it has even something in common with “Joker” - and it has hit a nerve after all.
1009. Yorum: I mean it did not disappoint at all. I mean to say it didn't disappoint is an offensive statement to this film. Because it's absolutely outstanding. Instant masterpiece, instant classic.
1010. Yorum: I'm so glad that this movie won best picture,Bong Joon Ho is such a great film director and I need to get a chance to watch more foreign language movies such as The farewell. Overall Amazing!!!!
1011. Yorum: AND THAT'S ON WHAT???????? PERIODDDDDDDDD
1012. Yorum: The Ron Says:  This one had a lot to live up too.  I mean it's not only the highest rated film on the 2019 Letterboxd Year in Review, it's the highest rated film on this site all-time.  Currently topping The Godfather. The first time I saw that on the all-time stats page I was honestly shocked.  Taking a timeless classic like The Godfather's spot on a site like this is pretty damn impressive.  Considering the overwhelming praise everywhere you can look, the awards it's racking up, and the strong word of mouth, naturally I expected to be disappointed.  Well folks, I'm so far from disappointed that word might as well not exist.  I've seen most of Bong Joon-ho's films and this my friends is his masterpiece.  It's close to perfect in every aspect of filmmaking and I loved the story.  I went in knowing very few plot details and I recommend that anyone who has yet to see it do the same.  What a film!  A rare 5 star treat for me.
1013. Yorum: Parasite, the latest film from renowned director Bong Joon Ho, is a master class in directing, cinematography, acting, and writing that is definitely one of the best movies of the year. The film starts out as a dark comedy about class and then takes a crazy, unexpected turn. It offers a clever and damning commentary on social inequities and the widening wealth gap. I loved the surreal flourishes woven into the story also. This is a a must-see movie and one of the best of the year!
1015. Yorum: *in between sobs while slow clapping and giving a standing ovation in my room* and that's Cinema
1016. Yorum: South Korean auteur Bong Joon-ho continues to be an indefinable force of nature in modern world cinema, his films are elegantly constructed social parables passed off as exciting genre pictures⁠—but with the Palme d'Or winning Parasite he defies all categorisation, except perhaps as an unrivaled genius of his field.
1017. Yorum: This took like five different turns all in a direction I was not expecting! Okay!
1018. Yorum: the power that that has, the intelligence that that has, the clearance that that has, the impact that that has, the access that that has, the influence that that has, the profile that that has, the international implications that that has
1019. Yorum: 2019 has been a veritable shocker for cinema thus far, and with that in mind, I had wondered just how much of the fevered adulation surrounding Bong Joon-ho’s film was a reaction to the dearth of quality during the first six months of the year. As it turns out... a little.
1021. Yorum: 2nd time watching this in a theater. Masterpiece.
1022. Yorum: I've been itching to rewatch this since seeing it on its release in Korea. Interestingly, my opinion of it was almost the exact same, despite not being able to understand more than a tenth of the dialogue on my first viewing. This time around the humor hit a whole lot more (as you could imagine, actually being able to understand and all) and the tension bit harder. Everything stepped up a notch, except for the ending. Final sequence is the main thing keeping this from a 10 for me. A giant bound ahead of the rest of Bong's filmography, and that is no small feat. Film of the year.
1023. Yorum: I literally care about nothing else.
1024. Yorum: 10+ - A brilliant social commentary on the class system in South Korea, Parasite is a refreshing and exciting genre-bender, proving why Bong Joon-ho is one of the most talented filmmakers out there.
1025. Yorum: First rewatch in years and I’m here to report that every single minute of this is still pure gold.
1028. Yorum: insane how perfect this film is
1031. Yorum: Bong joon ho gives you everything in this movie. Laughs, Suspense, Disgust, Empathy, Shock and Hope. The message is so woven into the film and subtle. Hardly a flaw in the film. The film does not talk down to it's audience and presents characters who are not your stereotypical rich and poor. The movie makes you think, a deep long think. The runtime of 132 mins is hardly noticeable in this fast faced storytelling with a crisp screenplay. Bong Joon Ho is hands down one of the best directors of our times. Deserves all the accolades it has been garnering. Such a Masterpiece!
1032. Yorum: Parasite is a masterful film. Tackling wealth, class and society, it makes its message easy to understand without being too direct. I don’t know how it manages to balance on this line but never cross it. The story is carefully crafted and the pace is perfect. The score and cinematography are perfectly complimentary and reinforce the meaning of the whole film. The characters are constantly selling exactly what they need to to the upper class family while fighting with the lower class to make it to the top. There is a constant struggle for power, and whenever they get the slightest taste, it changes them. They become like the rich and forget about their roots. The ending is perfectly executed. It is redeeming, but by no means is it a happy ending. I cannot think of anything wrong with this film.
1033. Yorum: Watched with my dad this time and I still love it, he loved it too. I was worried since I know what was going to happen that I wouldn't enjoy it as much but I loved it even more. It's one of those films I can't really talk about because none of the things I say are going to be original. Everything about this movie is pure perfection. So well crafted and executed. It's just a great movie and you all should watch it.
1034. Yorum: A sensory feast. Happy Oscars Sunday!
1035. Yorum: it gives me hell of a serotonin and i don't even know why?!?!!!! such a great feeling, fellas.
1036. Yorum: Dang. It really is that good!
1037. Yorum: I know everyone loves to love this movie, but there’s a reason for this. I saw it with my friend who hadn’t seen it before and I think that’s the best way to see it. It adds a whole new level of watching someone else go through this film. It makes you realize just how great the film is. This is inching closer and closer to that number 2 slot as I think it’s already surpassed Rocketman and gotten into my top 3 of last year guys it’s really good.
1038. Yorum: celebratory watch post award show season and it STILL hits different
1039. Yorum: director bong struggling to hold all his oscars: it’s so metaphorical
1043. Yorum: For a while there during the second half of the ever-ambitious 80s we saw a string of comedies get released featuring protagonists who, because of their hunger to improve their lives somehow, grossly misrepresented themselves to the rest of the world. Girls became boys, nerds turned into cool kids, mail clerks passed as executives, whitey went black before he was inevitably kicked back. These films were (for their time) wild and occasionally outrageous but also a little predictable. You always knew the situation would invariably end up going south for the heroes and that in the long run their dishonesty would only come back to bite them in the ass. Bong Joon-ho's Parasite--which follows an impoverished South Korean family who out of desperation fake a variety of personal details in order to finally land jobs working for a rich family--may be considerably smarter, more stylish, and have more of something to say than all those other films, but it also has a few of the same trademark problems that they did.
1044. Yorum: Based on the cover and without watching any trailers I thought this would be a horror film. Pleasantly surprised it wasnt though. Weird film for sure. Like it.
1046. Yorum: We Do (Not) Live In A Society
1049. Yorum: Finally sat down and watched this, was not disappointed at all. Yes, it is THAT good.
1050. Yorum: “If I had all this I would be kinder”
1051. Yorum: I had no idea what this was about going into it. The only thing I've ever seen online is the rom-don which looked so yummy. This went crazy y'all! If you havnt seen it, I highly recommend it!
1052. Yorum: Felt like trying out the B&W version (fine!) and yeah we weren’t wrong in 2019
1054. Yorum: WOW. i went in with such high expectations and, holy shit, this film shattered it. such a perfect film that is crafted so beautifully. everything in this movie is perfect, i love it so much, easily one of the best films i’ve ever watched and a new favourite. 100/100.
1055. Yorum: I mean, obviously this is Bong Joon-ho’s masterpiece. It’s just one of the most technically sound movies to ever be made. The score and cinematography are outstanding. The framing specifically and the color palette of the whole film are gorgeous. The writing is absolutely genius. And those performances are all top notch. Song Kang-ho is clearly terrific. But I think my favorite performance would be that of Park So-dam, she’s in complete control the WHOLE time. This movie is top tier, but you don’t need me to tell you that.
1056. Yorum: Well...this is going to be a bit personal ( :
1057. Yorum: Song Kang-ho's best performance since his voice work as Alex in the Korean dub of Madagascar
1058. Yorum: I thought I couldn’t get any more enraptured by this film, but then I watched it in black and white. Bong Joon-Ho is bewitching.
1059. Yorum: fucking incredible i can’t believe it took me this long to watch bc i do enjoy foreign movies i just recently found out it was on Hulu but you neeed to watch this if u haven’t already
1060. Yorum: bloody fantastic. holy shit
1062. Yorum: My first reaction was to have this as a review —> 🤯
1063. Yorum: I just want to say first: This really isn’t a review of Parasite. It’s a very personal and indulgent use of this platform to tell the story of my own grim financial reality, and how it led me to connect deeply with and root for the characters in this amazing film. I think most would consider what I’m sharing here to be the financial equivalent of TMI and majorly cringe in its detailed transparency. I get that. But I’ve really been needing to share about my current situation for awhile now, and I feel I’m running out of time to share it. Experiencing Parasite gave me the opportunity for expressing these thoughts, ideas, and moral imperatives in a (hopefully) meaningful way. Thanks in advance if you read all of this. Trigger warning for mentions of suicidal feelings, but I want to clarify that I’m not actively feeling suicidal right now. Also - spoiler warning for the movie!
1064. Yorum: You can’t have a Host without a Parasite. I tried really hard to come in to this movie cold and based on the name alone I figured it would be one of the Bong science fiction movies like The Host, Okja or Snowpiecer. I didn’t realize it would be one of his straight thrillers like Mother or Memories of a Murder until I was walking up to the ticket counter and heard an old man with his grandson giving him the synopsis of the movie. With a little fast walking past them I was able to avoid everything but “it’s about two families, one rich, one poor and something happens to change everything...” this was one of those movies where I avoided a bathroom break, crossed my legs and gripped the armrests so that I could see what happened next. It certainly doesn’t afford for a bathroom run with one of the longest continuous scenes of suspense I have ever seen that leads to two more successive scenes that only ramp up the intensity on the family. This is a movie that builds the world of the house so perfectly then expands the world to add two more “downstairs-es” to the “upstairs” of the architect’s house.
1065. Yorum: Bruh this is some of the most overhyped crap I’ve ever seen in my life. I live and breathe anime but Korean movies apparently aren’t my thing 
1067. Yorum: Eat the rich (trial version).
1068. Yorum: Out of the more than 1000 movies I’ve seen I’ve only given 50 10/10s and 84 9/10s…but giving this a 9/10 almost feels disrespectful. It’s an undeniable masterpiece.
1069. Yorum: CRITERION CHALLENGE 2021 — WATCHING 52 CRITERION MOVIES IN ONE WEEK 
1070. Yorum: Previous Review - Here
1071. Yorum: Here’s why I did not love Parasite.
1074. Yorum: i'm ready to fight and campaign for this absolute beauty of a masterpiece for the 2020 award season...WHO'S WITH ME???
1075. Yorum: the very first month of this year feels like an eternity away.
1076. Yorum: This movie is so hyped up you watch it and think it’s going to be overrated, then you watch it and it turns out to be one of the best movies you’ve ever seen.
1077. Yorum: when i'm at the house yeah i'm bumpin' that
1081. Yorum: 'modern mansion no mods cc' sims4 gallery type house
1082. Yorum: One of the most brilliant films I’ve ever seen.
1083. Yorum: Since the film has blown up around the 2020 Oscars I haven't managed to rewatch it. So, what better time to finally rewatch Parasite than the night before boarding my plane to Seoul?
1084. Yorum: bong joon-ho made history. one of the greatest in history, if not, the greatest.
1085. Yorum: very mad at myself that i put off watching this for so long. an awesome critique of neocolonialism, imperialism, and racial capitalism—and the ways in which any and all of us can be implicated in its ongoing violences.
1088. Yorum: First movie I saw in theaters in the UK!
1089. Yorum: feel like i've been hit over the head w a wealth rock
1090. Yorum: i had no idea what this movie was about before watching it so i literally saw it without knowing ANYTHING not even the plot and without having seen not even a trailer (which definitely was for the best). now im just trying to think about what i just saw........... i don’t even know what to say
1091. Yorum: immediately after this my friend and i got in an elevator with a bunch of strangers from the screening and we went down one floor but then the elevator had what might be called a tantrum and, as one, all of us BOOKED IT outta there and took the fire escape. shouts to bong joon ho for the sense of unity i felt with the wild haired woman who muttered “oh fuck this” when we thought we couldn’t get the elevator open
1093. Yorum: So Metaphorical.
1095. Yorum: A flawless movie
1096. Yorum: Okay, so I’m blown away. My mind is scattered. I don’t even know what to think. Korean movies are insanely good.
1097. Yorum: Another South Korean Masterpiece and one of the best films of the year. Doesn't fit into any one genre as it samples every genre. Great film. Great cast. Great story. Great pacing.
1098. Yorum: when she’s on the toilet smoking a cigarette as literal shit is SPRAYING out of it...best shot of the year
1099. Yorum: Please for the love of cinema, just watch this movie and enjoy. Best movie of 2019 I've seen so far.
1100. Yorum: Gonna violate the Geneva Convention here real quick and say that this was indeed great, but not the greatest thing since ribbed condoms that once again revolutionized our very beings and humanity as we know it like letterboxd seems to suggest. The first hour and half was so incredibly electric and easily the most exhilarating hour and half of narrative that Bong had accomplished in his entire career outside of Memories of Murder because you can’t touch Memories of Murder if you tried. So it’s unfortunate that the last 30+ minutes kind of lost me by going places that others might find only logical and satisfying, but for me truly underwhelming, redundant, and undermines a lot of good buildup work. Like that’s what all this is leading up to? Just like that?
1101. Yorum: God, the writing in this movie is so brilliant and the ending is just as shocking as it was when i watched it for the first time 5 years ago.
1102. Yorum: Parasite is one of the greatest films that I have ever watched. I have been wanting to watch this film for a while, and I am extremely glad that I did. Bong Joon-Ho deserved all of those Oscars for sure. The amount of dedication and hard work is definitely present in this film. Additionally, there are many factors on why Parasite is a masterpiece.
1103. Yorum: I first watched Parasite a month after it had won the Palme d’Or. At that stage I’d been looking forward to it as I do most of the winners of that award, and the reviews coming in were generally very positive, which augured well. And at the time I wasn’t disappointed, I enjoyed it a lot, but then it didn’t stick around long in my mind. Another month went by and I saw Portrait of a Lady on Fire, which had also been competing at Cannes, and I thought wow, there’s the film that should have won. But I didn’t begrudge Parasite, because it was a brilliant film in its own right, and just because I have a personal preference for more classical film making doesn't mean I'm right (goddammit). But since then, of course, there’s been an almighty groundswell of hype and love that’s grown around Parasite, which is kind of wonderful, but also confounding because I don’t get it. Anyway, the hype, no doubt helped in part by the Academy Award nominations, has brought the film back into the cinemas, so I went along to a packed house screening for a chance to reappraise. 
1104. Yorum: Parasite: The highest rated movie on Letterboxd
1106. Yorum: Not knowing what the actual fuck this movie was about until entering the cinema hall was a fantastic sensation.
1107. Yorum: “Respect!”
1108. Yorum: You have no clue how long I wanted to see this movie. I had tickets at my local theater a few weeks ago but they canceled it for some reason. Today, I finally found a theater less then 50 miles away that was playing it so I made the trek down there to see it. 
1109. Yorum: Well, thank gosh things are finally starting to live up to their hype this year! At this point in his career, it's definitely time to be putting Bong's name up their with the greatest directors and storytellers of all time. Parasite is perfectly plotted and executed to the point where my whole theater was giddy with excitement after every single twist and turn. The dialogue is incredibly witty and, after his English stint, much funnier than I had expected it to be.
1110. Yorum: the dance of freedom. the death bells. the lighting of the Bong (Joon-Ho)
1111. Yorum: A showstopper. Whatever triviality is occupying your head will suddenly be blown out the tailpipe with Parasite. Bong has taken control of the asylum and is now shooting 100 proof cinema into the arms of the patients. A conductor commanding a symphony. Any doubt that he's in the director hall of fame goes "poof" with Parasite.
1112. Yorum: When a film gets as much hype as this one has received, I’m instantly suspicious and convince myself I’ll be disappointed in it. I’ve never been so glad to be wrong. Parasite does NOT disappoint. I’m so glad I went in with no real ideas of the plot, having avoided the trailers, and generally not really having any expectations on what I was about to see. It was mind-blowing, hilarious, diabolical and tragic all rolled into one. I saw it hours ago and haven’t been able to stop thinking about it enough to write my initial, spoiler-free reactions. Best film I’ve seen from 2019 so far, I think.
1113. Yorum: how can one even begin to review this
1114. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho once again returns to the outrage of society as he tells the story of an opportune lower-class family interweaving themselves within the domesticated space of a wealthier counterpart, contrasting their socioeconomic parallels in this darkly comedic tale.
1115. Yorum: everything at the end of this movie is appropriate punishment for getting freaky on the couch
1116. Yorum: This is a tale about the Kim family, they live in a small apartment and have to climb to get wifi. They are charming people but of course they desire for more as bills are going unpaid and they'd love some good wifi. Things start took look up when they are given a rock of fortune. First eldest son lands a sweet tutoring job working for the rich Park family tutoring their daughter. Never one to seize an opportunity he works to help elevate the other members of his family by finding them jobs as well. It is pretty darned entertaining, as nearly everyone is acting dubiously. I can definitely see why this has mass appeal, the characters are very well-written and the scheme is impressive. It's also beautifully filmed, and well-paced despite being over two hours long. It does have it's moments as a thriller as well but it mostly seems a statement about class.
1119. Yorum: “they’re nice because they’re rich”
1121. Yorum: a bitter social critique that knows how to surprise and amuse. shows mastery of cinematic language and a disarming ease in changing tone and genre.
1123. Yorum: okay, for the fourth time, those who rated this movie 4 or 4.5, WHAT MORE COULD YOU POSSIBLY WANT??
1124. Yorum: first time watching this outside of a theater (because i lacked self-control in 2019 and saw this three times in the theater in less than two months...lol) and kept whispering involuntarily "it's so fucking good" every few minutes, like this script is such a banger!!!! it continues to be a banger!!! kinda wanna go put hot sauce on pizza rn!!!!
1125. Yorum: peak cinema, EVERYTHING is perfect
1126. Yorum: One of the best movies i've ever seen
1127. Yorum: so many feet sounds
1128. Yorum: Only my second watch, my first one being at the cinemas over a year ago. This film is still phenomenal. There's so much personal style and flair but it doesn't feel overdone or out of place as the directorial flourishes contribute to the films themes and tone. This film is such a wild ride. It's charming, thrilling and has a lot to say.
1129. Yorum: Nothing to see here 👨‍🦯just adding that half star I forgot last time.
1130. Yorum: yeah i fucking love this movie, it’s genius 
1132. Yorum: Wow! This is one of the most well made films I think I’ve ever seen! Each shot, each character, each line! And the story is so unique and allows for some smart events!
1133. Yorum: This movie is just as good as everyone says it is and more than deserving of all of the praise it has received!
1134. Yorum: Watched with Tom!! 🚀.
1135. Yorum: ☆"Respect!"☆
1136. Yorum: do rich people deserve rights? lets discuss
1137. Yorum: holy shit they really ate the rich
1138. Yorum: Alright, time for the second movie of the day. While I may not have fallen in love with Parasite as much as everyone else has, I still can't find a flaw in this incredibly well-made movie. It's an intriguing study of class that somehow seamlessly switches tones about halfway through the movie but that is engaging all the way through. I can't necessarily speak as to how well the nuances of the written dialogue and line deliveries were executed since I don't speak Korean, but all the way through, it was a total blast seeing the main family figure out how to survive with barely any money. Watching them slowly worm their way into getting more money is incredibly intriguing to watch and kept me engaged throughout the entire movie.
1139. Yorum: Grade: MASTERPIECE (5 out of 5)
1140. Yorum: It starts off as a clever bit of social satire, and then it gets darker. And then much darker still. Really, it's one of those movies that is best experienced with as little foreknowledge as possible, as it takes some surprising turns along the way.
1141. Yorum: This movie is brilliant. It’s truly unlike anything I’ve seen this year and I want to be so vague in this review as to not spoil it cause I’d say it’s best to go in with as little knowledge as possible. 
1142. Yorum: Parasite reminded me of Aronofsky's mother! in the sense that it thinks it is making a deep and nuanced social critique, while in reality it is annoyingly throwing the obvious point it wants to make in your face in the first ten minutes. Directors that treat their audience like they can't figure out the message by themselves rarely manage to make me connect with their films. Of all the films about class struggles, capitalism, and inequalities, this isn't even by far one of the most accomplished and powerful.
1143. Yorum: so this was my first time ever attending a film festival and it was amazing!! my friend’s friend (who i had just met) bought me two glasses of wine that i had to drink before going into the theatre (so we missed the first 10 or 15 minutes...) but god damn the rest of it was fantastic and i love film festivals. the end
1145. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho Ranked
1147. Yorum: OH MY GODDDDD. this is something that needs to be seen to be believed. batshit crazy and absolutely brilliant.
1148. Yorum: easily the best film of my generation
1149. Yorum: I've known about this film since it first came out. At that time, I wasn't into thrillers and decided to watch it later. Also, it was too mainstream for my taste. I usually avoid mainstream films because they are often made to please the masses, and everybody knows about them. I have always preferred watching underrated films with new concepts that are not easy to grasp. Finally, today I decided to watch this one because I was in the mood for a good Korean film.
1150. Yorum: Had a blast with this. Love it when a film can make you laugh, hold you in suspense and genuinely shock you the way Parasite can. It’s incredibly rich with subtext and themes. One of those films you think about long after it has finished. 
1151. Yorum: This movie clings to me.
1152. Yorum: RESPEEEECT
1155. Yorum: PARASITE (Bong Joon-ho, South Korea, 2019) 10 (was 9) R
1156. Yorum: A Hitchcockian wonderland of devilish thrills, coiling suspense, mischievous humor, sharp story turns, a vibrant pack of distinctively hued characters, basically only two main settings whose designs and features are dazzlingly utilized, uncommonly casual family bonds (when deception is a primary story device, you don't usually see people be so endearingly, tightly knit, making that element yet another splendid dodge of convention here), nuanced morality (no one here is altogether good or bad, despite the complex webbing of alternating tugs at our sympathy and scorn for just about every single person), and a powerfully sobering climax that's punctuated by a final *thing* (vague to avoid spoilers) which reverberates against the film's heavy commentary on social class disparity and bittersweet have-nots human struggle as memorably as J-Lo's great closing line in "Hustlers" did.
1159. Yorum: Despite being my favorite of Bong Joon-ho's work by a large margin, it doesn't look like I'm going to be in the camp hailing this as one of the best films of the year. For a long time I was really loving it; the first act in particular reminded me of the intricate narrative and character dynamics of The Handmaiden, which is similarly con artist-adjacent, but there's no denying how completely unsatisfying I find the final 20 minutes. Probably deserves a spoiler review to go into detail about my specific issues with the climax/resolution (though I have other reservations as well) and I'm determined to give it a second watch by the end of the year anyway.
1160. Yorum: ohh fancy pants rich mcgee over here FUCK YOU ! - the kim family
1161. Yorum: I gasped, I laughed, I choked on peach fluff
1162. Yorum: I have put off this movie for SO LONG. Due to not being in the right mindset to read subtitles throughout, or just wanting to watch something in a different genre. One thing I can say is that I regret not watching this as soon as I first found out about it. 
1163. Yorum: South Korean season on Film 4 this month!
1164. Yorum: Watched the black and white edition. I remember telling a friend of mine that if a movie has colours it has to justify why the use of colour instead of the black and white. This is not true, I probably wanted to make a point about the importance of colour or the importance of its absence. "Parasite" is a filme where the use of colour gives an extra layer to the film. Moods, plot points and the dramatic realism of the picture are all affected without it.
1165. Yorum: Waiting for everyone to attack me for not rating this 5 stars. The first half was good but the second half kinda sucked.
1166. Yorum: This is so metaphorical. 🤗
1167. Yorum: I'm Really late to the party on this one, I know, but honestly that's just the kind of man I was. Call me a contrarian, hipster, assaholic bitch, what have you but I like to wait on watching things when they have such buzz. I don't know why I'm like this but my decidely snobbish skepticism has shielded me from being disappointed by pretty much every popular TV show of the last 10 years, unlike all of you sorry GoT and Walking Dead fans.
1168. Yorum: UHMM EXCUSE ME WHILE I PICK MY JAW UP OFF THE FLOOR?? MY EYES HAVE BEEN BLESSED I AM A WHOLE NEW PERSON
1169. Yorum: Fourth time watching it and I'm still not prepared to do a proper review.
1171. Yorum: I retract my rating, now that it's won best picture I hate it
1172. Yorum: The parts with the rain briefly reminded me how, at least with the people I knew growing up, 'loving the winter' wasn't so much a cutesy goth thing as a 'my house has heating/insulation' thing. Parasite is elemental, choosing rain as a minor and inevitable occurrence that threatens one group and just changes the scenery for another. Of course the lived administration of these things doesn't matter and Bong understands this — the rain isn't just the rain and using public transport isn't just using public transport. Following the flood from the top of the hill down also traces the Parks' fundamental disgust of the Kims from their guts to their pores.
1174. Yorum: 2019 Ranked: boxd.it/2fcdA
1175. Yorum: A bit heavy handed and very of it’s time but a masterpiece nonetheless. Cried and laughed multiple times each (which isn’t saying much coming from me but still). Bong joon ho and song kang ho never disappoint. I’m wayyyyyy behind on 2019 movies but I don’t see anything beating this
1176. Yorum: Manages to be three or four different films all at once, each one as wildly entertaining as the last. With an absolutely bonkers incident at its climax that comes seemingly out of nowhere, even though, in retrospect, all the seeds had been planted throughout the movie. Instant classic.
1177. Yorum: a nifty (and often delightfully stressful) look at the double bind of affective/domestic labor, performing the role of gratefully subservient class status while also operating the facade of earned wealth that keeps that status fixed. There’s something here about income brackets allowing an idle ruling class to be “nice” while the violence of capitalism is outsourced to failing infrastructure or warring factions below, either those increasingly proletarianized or others ascending to an internal labor aristocracy.
1178. Yorum: Me, a millennial: if this is the only way to have a steady job and my own house, so be it...
1179. Yorum: I'm telling you. 2019 is going to be hailed as one of the most memorable years for movies because of movies like Parasite. We need more movies like this.
1182. Yorum: gets better with each viewing
1185. Yorum: very unrealistic, if they wanted to be rich they should've worked hard for it
1186. Yorum: Ever since I heard Parasite was coming out from the Criterion, I kept waiting on a release date. But since it came out on 4K 2 days ago, I knew I had to buy it at Best Buy, including The Invisible Man & War of the Worlds. The price for all 3 of them were $70, so was it worth it? Yes it was! So personally, I would consider it as a wedding gift to me from me! But most importantly, I can’t get enough of Parasite! I showed it to my best friend and his wife last weekend, and they thought it was fucking twisted, but it was one of the best films of 2019, and they thought it definitely deserved to win the Best Picture Oscar! I just wish I can show it to my fiancé, but she’s not interested in seeing great films in subtitles.
1187. Yorum: Holy. Fucking. Shit.
1188. Yorum: best picture best picture best picture
1189. Yorum: I'm not the craziest about stories that are predominantly predicated on metaphors and allegory; the search for relating deeper meaning almost always tends to come at the expense of narrative coherence and emotional depth, leaving the audience with little to gain from the work beyond the direct ideological intentions of the creator. Parasite, despite being a microcosmic study of the dangers of class inequality on a broad societal level, shocked me by managing to work equally well as both an allegory and as an engaging thriller! Bong Joon Ho's efforts are genuinely masterful here on every level, as he playfully sets up the puzzle pieces in the first act, before the narrative shifts in a way that was at both wildly unpredictable and completely necessary. This shift arrives just as the film threatened to stagnate within the bounds of it's initial premise, and instead managed to build upon itself in a manner that managed to be equal parts gripping and insightful. The result leaned into the mix of overt social commentary and dark comedy that I've come to love from him, the insanely tight script managing to find an emotional hook for everything that occurs in spite of the fact that every element manages to serve a dual role in the overarching metaphor (and oftentimes, has a literal or thematic double within the bounds of the narrative as well). The look and feel that he creates for this film does a lot of work in reinforcing the narrative: the graceful and purposeful camerawork, in combination with the richly detailed production design are vital in reinforcing both the pathos and logos of a story whose tightrope walk could have so easily fallen into disaster.
1190. Yorum: Was going to make a bad People Under the Stairs joke only to realize they really do have practically the same general premise?
1191. Yorum: I was ready to run with Midsommar being my fav of the year but Ari Aster has been found dead in a ditch because FUCK.
1193. Yorum: I dont even care at this point. You think sometimes the director made their peak and there's no going back and then they do this.
1194. Yorum: this is literally that thing where a person lives somewhere in your house without you ever knowing omgg
1195. Yorum: It infuriates me that there is an option to give this movie less than five stars. I don’t understand how someone could leave this movie and say it’s not a masterpiece. I am in love with Parasite. Every second of this movie engrossed me. I never wanted it to end. The definition of a perfect movie.
1197. Yorum: went in with high expectations. CAN CONFIRM THIS SHIT WAS SO GOOD
1199. Yorum: When a smart South Korea poor family decides to escalate the social ladder and take advantage of a rich family offering it suited services to their familiar problems firstly they have to displace the former employees. They did not realize nor the family living in the house that in the underground of it there was an atomic bunker. I was built to face any attack from North Korea. The brokers didn't say that to their clients to maintain the market price. Later on, the new employees well established in the house will find out that part of the replaced employees' family lives in this secret basement. The film displays the South Korea class conflicts as a metaphor for growing poverty engulfing the population with rampant disemployment. In this fantastic realism film, all social classes are placed in the same house: poor, middle class and rich. Old resentments and prejudices escalate as time passes. A revolution, interests conciliation or a violent upheaval without winners may develop as those class representatives have to negotiate when and how to enjoy this gorgeous house built by a famous Korean architect. This is a masterpiece.
1202. Yorum: Probably the most unpredictable movie I’ve seen in a long time.
1203. Yorum: this movie is so good that i cry myself at night thinking i would never make something as beautiful as this
1204. Yorum: This ended at like 10 am for me and i gotta say, nothing like the perils of class and greed, ultimately leading to psychopathic murder before breakfast!
1205. Yorum: THAT’S GROOMING KEVIN, CUT IT OUT!
1206. Yorum: everyone already knows this film is incredible. i don’t need to say anything else. time to go watch them accept all the EXTREMELY deserving awards this cast/crew won!!!
1207. Yorum: the imax transfer was not that good, but it was sick seeing it on such a big screen
1208. Yorum: “This is so metaphorical”
1210. Yorum: Finally I got to see this movie after it won best picture. the movie was released in the US months ago and it was released last week in the U.K and Ireland. Bong Joon Ho did a fantastic job directing this movie and the performances were great. The movie itself feels like a different genre,One minute it feels like a comedy and a horror movie but that's Bong Joon Ho for you the Man's a genius and I am glad it won best picture. yes I did wish the Irishman for best picture this year but this movie deserved all the awards and it is my favourite foreign language movie next to crouching tiger. Overall incredible.
1212. Yorum: How can a film blend aspects of comedy, provocative social commentary, and anxiety inducing horror in such a perfect way? It shouldn't be possible.
1213. Yorum: Damn, I loved watching this amazing film a second time. I’m sure I’ll watch it a few more times in 2020 and for the rest of my life. I loved the themes and hidden meanings. The stairs, the Indians metaphor, rich vs poor theme, who’s the real parasite? The unpredictability throughout the second half, not knowing exactly what will happen in each scene. The amazing cast. Screenplay was brilliantly flawless. It was a crazy film and yet it seems very possible. Cinematography is on another level. Production design set wonderfully done. Give Bong Joon-ho his Oscar for Best Picture, Best Director and Best Original Screenplay. He deserves it.
1215. Yorum: Absorbing, powerful, and poetic.
1216. Yorum: I hadn’t seen any of Bong Joon-ho’s other films, prior to this, so I was interested to see what kind of filmmaker, I was getting involved with. And while Parasite might not be the best movie I’ve seen all year, there’s still a lot to enjoy here. The entire cast is fantastic, from Choi Woo-shik as Ki-taek's son, Kim Ki-woo to Cho Yeo-jeong, as Dong-ik's wife, Choi Yeon-gyo. It’s certainly a visual feast for the eyes, as cinematographer Hong Kyung-pyon, collaborates with screenwriters Joon-ho and Han Jin-won to provide lots of social commentary throughout. However, most of it is subtle and will probably take you more than one viewing to understand it. I will say that one message I kind of understood, was that “Parasites” can come from anywhere, and that we are all trying to get ahead, regardless of our social status. There’s probably a lot that I didn’t quite understand, so I am interested to revisit and dissect it. Jeong Jae-il delivers a haunting score, that will terrify you, especially in the 2nd half of the film. Unfortunately, I felt the pacing drag on a bit, during that time and the plot conveniences were ABUNDANT. I know the Park family is supposed to be naive, but there’s no way any one can be that dumbfounded. The twist “incident” was very realistic though, and the movie also has some decent humor, too. In the end, Parasite isn’t an incredible movie, contrary to what critics have been saying, but I still liked it and will be giving this another watch soon. Your enjoyment may vary, however, if you’ve seen some of Bong Joon-ho’s other works.
1217. Yorum: I saw Parasite in its entirety last night and found it thoroughly unpleasant. The poor are depicted as heartless, self-interested and vicious jackals with no redeeming qualities (there isn't even much love depicted within the Kim family at the center of the film). Each time they receive a paycheck their default is to sit in their own filth and scheme as beer cans and empties pile up around them.
1219. Yorum: worst birthday party ever i think
1220. Yorum: ‪a shockingly and hauntingly beautiful drama but at the same time a harrowing thriller..the rumors are true THIS IS A MASTERPIECE‬
1221. Yorum: Bong sneaks up on you. Seamless transitions between genres, all while taking a literal swing at the class divide.
1223. Yorum: A whole new meaning to upstairs/downstairs dynamic
1224. Yorum: Every other movie in 2019 is gonna *wish* to be as good as this masterstroke
1227. Yorum: The film completely escapes a genre and combines aspects of social criticism with a dramatic plot, with thriller elements and occasional funny passages to form a whole. There is an incredible twist in the middle in particular, after which the film is like a different story and you are no longer really watching the same title as before. But the best thing about it: nothing, absolutely nothing, is predictable. You look back at the film and realise that you had not somehow anticipated or foreseen any of the twists that happened here. And that is a real gift for a film today.
1228. Yorum: “It feels like a dream, and yet it doesn’t.”
1229. Yorum: A movie where every individual is a villain at one point or another. There are no protagonists or happy endings. All of the characters were parasites in their own right. Every major plot development was based on a lie, it was a house of cards that could not stand and as soon as the rain came, it all washed it all away. A morality tale focused on lying and charades even with the absence of social class.  
1230. Yorum: Shared this with my brother today and it’s the exact opposite experience of sharing The Lobster with someone...
1231. Yorum: Sorry, no Tom Cruise so I'm obliged to give it a 1/10. Sorry I don't make the rules🤷‍♂️
1232. Yorum: Finally got around to seeing this one thanks to Hulu. Suffice it to say, it did not disappoint.
1234. Yorum: Had to wait until I had the chance to see this in a theater and I’m so glad I did. So well constructed and endlessly inventive. Just the way certain scenes were cut blew my mind. What an exhausting, wild ride.
1236. Yorum: i watched this instead of studying for my finals and i don’t regret that decision at all
1237. Yorum: sometimes, a film reaches a level of hype before its release that you know it can’t live up to. no matter what it does, there is no way that it can attain the expectations that have been building and building and building. and with the way my 2019 in film is going, if it’s universally loved, i’ll probably find a problem with it. 
1238. Yorum: Tons going on here, a lot to unpack. I don't think this can be completely figured out after just one viewing. Very deep. 🤔
1241. Yorum: Let’s just say I’m hard as a rock
1243. Yorum: I am so pleased to see that a film displaying class difference has such a high rating. In this fucked up world that we live in, you would think that Bong would be buried beneath Hollywood shit. This movie is why I still have faith in humanity.
1244. Yorum: This movie is good, I think much more of it now that I've gotten the chance to see it again. There are a million thought-provoking details, it's well-acted, it's well-directed, it's well-edited, and it catches your attention from start to finish. 100% deserving of Best Picture, and it should have gotten some acting nominations as well. Everybody talks about Song Kang-ho, but my personal favorite performance in this may have been Cho Yeo-jeong. Her character was insane and crazy and put me on edge multiple times. Honestly, everybody here delivered so well and added to the whole thing.
1246. Yorum: After watching it for the fourth time, I decided that I should do a review of my favorite movie of all time. What I love so much about Parasite is that it says so much with a relatively simple plot. There’s social commentary on class conflict and wealth inequality. However, the commentary is subtle and never preaches. We observe the injustices of our economic system trough the beauty of the storytelling. The film doesn’t make any overt statements. It’s all simply included in the storyline. That is what is so remarkable about Parasite. It is a well written character driven entertaining masterpiece.
1247. Yorum: Parasite is definitely one of a kind. Socially critical, full of dark humor, excitingly told and acted. What I’ve heard and read about this movie is completely true without any doubt.
1249. Yorum: "This is so metaphorical."
1251. Yorum: Never gets old. Especially when you're showing someone new.
1252. Yorum: Managed to catch this on the big screen and was easily one of my favourite theatre experiences ever. Found so many more nuanced details that I missed in my first watch, in terms of imagery, symbolism, dialogue and things that link all three, somehow managing to love it even more this time round :)
1253. Yorum: taking notes on living underground and isolated for four years
1254. Yorum: The emotional agitation I originally felt while watching Bong Joon-ho’s dark comedy thriller Parasite 기생충 (2019), the first foreign language film to win the Academy Award for Best Picture, has not faded with subsequent viewings. The dark but playful Hitchcockian voyeurism that it uses to bridge the realistic and the absurd is still captivating. 
1255. Yorum: watched it on DVD for the first time and it's an honour to have this gift to filmmaking in my house
1256. Yorum: New details pop up on every watch. What a tight film that constantly moves while being thought-provoking in every second. Extremely odd to see it with my parents and brother who definitely don't align with the leftist elements at all, but it was their choice for movie day. For me, I was just glad to have a chance to revisit this exquisite masterpiece one last time in theaters. An achievement that well deserves the historic accolades it has received.
1257. Yorum: bong hive we are alive!!!
1258. Yorum: What. A. Film!
1259. Yorum: I can’t get out of my head
1260. Yorum: Despite the bad weather, I wanted to go to the theater today to possibly watch The Turning. When I checked the screen times, I happened to notice that this movie was playing as well. Since I had yet to see it, I decided this would be the movie I would go see instead. I was actually surprised to see it playing at my local theater just because they rarely screen foreign films. I'm glad they did in this case.
1263. Yorum: Memories of Murder did everything Parasite did, but in high heels and backwards.
1264. Yorum: To label Bong Joon-Ho's Parasite incredible would still be a massive understatement in what amounts to one of the year's most surprisingly entertaining and consistently thrilling films.
1265. Yorum: There isn’t anything that’s not technically impressive about movie - the efficiency of the storytelling, the performances, the staging and cinematography, the continual ratcheting up of tension. And yet even if Parasite is considerably less fantastic than Bong’s previous parables, I feel, as I have with his previous films, that the plot’s headlong race toward a cataclysmic conclusion ends up diminishing the film’s metaphorical power. 
1266. Yorum: Kim Ki-taek, played by Kang-ho Song, struggles through a meager day-to-day existence inside an insect-infested basement-level apartment in a working-class district of Seoul with his wife, his twentysomething daughter, and his college-age son, all of whom half-heartedly scrape by with short-lived low-paying jobs and obsess about the best places for connecting to the unsecured Wi-Fi networks of their neighbors. A glimmer of hope for the Kim family surfaces when the son, Ki-woo, acting on a friend's tip, forges fake university student papers and scams his way into employment as an English tutor for the teenage daughter of the upper-class Park family in their opulent modernist-architecture mansion, despite the fact that he has no such education. Through a series of gleeful heist-like schemes, the entire Kim family follows suit and assimilates their way into Park home, with the daughter posing as an art therapist for the young Park son, the mother taking over as the housekeeper of the mansion, and even Ki-taek himself easing his way into the fold as the chauffeur.
1267. Yorum: Yeah, this movie is fucking awesome. Grew on me as much as I thought it would.
1268. Yorum: I can't explain in words how amazing this movie is
1269. Yorum: this movie is wild y'all and that's all i'm gonna say because you should go into it knowing as little as possible about it. one of the best of the year tho
1270. Yorum: The lower class forced to eat itself alive and there’s no end in sight. Sounds dour, but this is perfect proof that a message movie that doesn’t have to be uber-serious nor eschew being gloriously entertaining to work and get its point across. The first hour might be the apex because any sort of plan or process being executed is like catnip for me, and it’s all gloriously paced. Goes without saying that the direction and production design is fantastic throughout. Maybe the key is that no one, even the upper class family, are presented as bad people. Everyone’s flawed and trying to make the best of it. We’re all stuck in our own predicaments, it’s the system that separates us.
1271. Yorum: Here’s the thing: Bong Joon-ho and Song Kang-ho personally came on stage to introduce the movie!!!!!!!! (I’m not kidding) ...so let’s just say that in that moment I started mumbling “holy shit” to myself and then didn’t stop for the subsequent 132 minutes. Holy shit.
1275. Yorum: I remember when I first saw this movie in the theater. It was my thirteenth birthday, and it was my first foreign film. I was absolutely blown away by it. I was happy it was the first foreign language film to win Best Picture, and it made me want to see more films from other nations. Since then, I have grown into a more avid movie watcher and have been blown away by other films from other countries that I probably wouldn’t have seen if it wasn’t for the impression this film left on me. I haven’t seen it since, and I saw it was leaving Hulu at the end of the week. I decided it was time for a rewatch.
1277. Yorum: ☆"Aren't we fortunate to be worrying about things like this?"☆
1278. Yorum: this is so metaphorical 
1279. Yorum: Re-watched this small little underground indie film, it holds on pretty well to a second watch, huh?
1280. Yorum: No words. The cinema was PACKED and I felt like a proud mom.
1281. Yorum: My mum doesn't believe this deserved best picture and that's fine, that's her opinion
1282. Yorum: Act like you own the place.
1283. Yorum: 2019 Ranked: boxd.it/2fcdA
1284. Yorum: Where the fuck do South Koreans get their ideas from? This film has way too many layers, ambiguous as hell, wickedly hilarious, unsettling just thinking about it. The creepiest shot of the year. Check. The most thought provoking shot of the year. Check.Bong Joon- Ho, you beauty,take a bow! My second favourite film of the year!
1285. Yorum: Crazy rollercoaster ride of emotions, I loved every second. The way every scene flowed into the next had me on edge the whole time. Every single frame had an intention behind it, telling us something new about the story. I absolutely adore the cinematography and how it highlights the juxtaposition of the mansion & the Kim’s apartment. So much attention to detail that I don’t think I fully grasped everything in the first watch. 
1286. Yorum: As some people would say “Another Bong Hit!”
1288. Yorum: Only saw this film once in theaters when it first came out and loved it then but it was in the middle of a year that was riddled with amazing cinema and while I was rooting for it at the Oscars I never really absorbed how truly great a work of cinema it was. 
1289. Yorum: This movie is just too fucking good. I’m glad to say that it’s even better the second time around. The way each member of the lower class family slowly but surely creeps their way into becoming parasites of the higher class family is so well done. The dramatic music, the outstanding acting and directing, it’s all so beautifully well done. The climax of the film is also eerily magnificent. I love how you never know where this movie is going to go next. The way it mixes comedy, drama, and honestly horror is very amazing. If you’re looking to delve more into foreign movies, this is the one to start with. Also, the ending is so moving and so beautiful. I’m so glad this won best picture AND palme d’or. IT DESERVES THE HYPE!!!
1291. Yorum: Even in a year particularly strong for movies, where so many skilled filmmakers stepped up and crafted masterful entries in their careers, in every way, Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite was deserving of each accolade it won. Although it may not even be his best film to date, it exhibits his usual talents and continuously proves his expertise when it comes to cinema, once again both pushing and defying boundaries of filmmaking and storytelling in that way that make Joon-Ho’s movies such a treat.
1292. Yorum: Hell, if I had all this money I'd be nice too
1293. Yorum: reminds me of plankton argh argh argh!
1294. Yorum: On this third viewing, I actually shouted "yeah!" when Kim got up and stabbed Park in the chest. I absolutely felt it, that instant white hot rage as the symbol of everything wrong in the world stands there, completely unmoved by your family tragedy. The moment is both cathartic and deeply tragic, symbolizing the plight of the majority of us under capitalism and the way our righteous pain and anger, when it does finally boil over, rarely begets actual change.
1295. Yorum: So, an official poster for the new Black and White re-release of "Parasite" got an awesome poster that shows the original poster from a different perspective. Check it out here. Let me know what you think about it in the comments.
1296. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.“
1297. Yorum: i don’t know if choosing on a whim to watch this movie at 2am while high on tylenol pm was a good idea or a bad one, but since i have nothing to compare it to and i had a really good time i’m going to call these ideal conditions.
1298. Yorum: I’ve seen all Oscar nominated movies now and this just blows them all away 🤙🏻
1299. Yorum: Part of My Silk Road Challenge (Korea)
1301. Yorum: ki woo: "All you'll need to do, is walk up the stairs"
1302. Yorum: Do you ever scroll through other Letterbox reviews because you don't know what to say.
1304. Yorum: [Jesse Pinkman's voice:] You ain’t seeing the basement, bitch!
1305. Yorum: Honestly I haven't gotten so quickly obsessed with a film in so long. I know I'm a pretty rabid rewatcher, but this is probably the quickest I've come back to a film.
1306. Yorum: GET IN THE HOUSE PEACHES WE GONNA FUCK UP THEM RICH LIVES
1307. Yorum: Review In A Nutshell:
1308. Yorum: There are a lot of things that won't surprise Bong fans about this latest film: the God-level staging and camerawork, the crackerjack pace, even the fact that the narrative is full of surprises. But after SNOWPIERCER and OKJA, two things really struck me: the production design and acting. Both take a turn away from the excesses in those films, and in an unshowy way help ground the film in a way that I wouldn't have expected. What's maintained from SNOWPIERCER and OKJA is the social critique, which reaches, somehow, new levels of scathingness, without ever overpowering the actual story of the film. Bilge Ebiri has claimed this is Bong's greatest film; it may not be as pure of an adrenaline rush as THE HOST, or as immediately haunting as MEMORIES OF MURDER, but I'm not sure he's wrong.
1309. Yorum: what did they do wrong?
1311. Yorum: I wish letterboxd had groupchats
1314. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho is from a super privileged family. He's an upper class in South Korea.
1315. Yorum: ...And I've finally reached that stage where a film has so many reviews, I have to question the point of logging it. Rather than any real insight, I will simple state that as fantastic as the mansion set was, there are shots of the slums that are so breathtakingly beautiful that I actually resented how much time we spent with the haves. Easily the best picture of 2019, and in my top five Bong Joon-ho films... but just barely.
1316. Yorum: Brought a friend of mine along to this and just changed her life.
1317. Yorum: Really enjoyed this, but am suspicious of its 99% Rotten Tomatoes score.
1319. Yorum: #Parasite EXCEEDED the HYPE it had built up over the last couple of months. Thought provoking, entertaining, original, clever, dynamic, extravagant, touching, hilarious, disturbing, depressing, memorable, and overall A MASTERS WORK 🔥
1320. Yorum: Director Bong Joon- ho second Best film runner up to Memories of Murder
1321. Yorum: Really great movie all around, might be a 5 upon rewatch.
1322. Yorum: I can’t wait to watch this again (soon)
1323. Yorum: Holy shit what a wonderful WONDERFUL film 
1325. Yorum: Parasite (2019) is a movie we saw in theatres as soon as it was released. The storyline involves a family down on their luck and funds when they find an opportunity they can't pass up. They've been asked to house sit for a wealthy family while on vacation and have strict rules on how they need to take care of the house. Each member of the family lies to the wealthy family and takes a role within their household. When the family comes back from their trip early, the working family needs to work really hard to hide their scheming ways; unfortunately for them, there may be secrets going on all around them they could have never anticipated. 
1327. Yorum: I finally watched this. I have officially been successfully dodging spoilers since this released back in 2019. 
1328. Yorum: when the movie is that great the only words that are coming out your mouth are wow and Fantastic
1329. Yorum: Patrick Bateman is losing his fucking mind over that business card
1330. Yorum: i could listen to “Jessica from Chicago” on repeat like a song on spotify.
1331. Yorum: "they’re rich but still nice
1332. Yorum: I don’t have much more to say about this than my previous review on my first account, but I will say I actually enjoyed this quite a bit more than the first time around. I may even decide to give it the full five stars the next time I see it.
1334. Yorum: • Review in English below
1335. Yorum: This is the third time I watched this movie. The first two times were in the theater. I've had a couple years between viewings, and I still feel this is one of the greatest films ever made. The acting, directing, writing, set design, and lighting are all pitch perfect.
1336. Yorum: “what if my driver and yayas do the same to my family?” 
1337. Yorum: Im sick as fuck for waiting this long but def worth tha hype. What is up with morse code?!?! literally 3 movies ive watched in 24 hours all talked about morse code. I love it tho. Im so sad the daughter... you know... anyways I loved the monologue at the end. I said out loud HOLY FUCK right when it ended and I hardly do that
1338. Yorum: The U.K appeared to be late to the Parasite party, especially where I live. My local cinema didn’t show it until after it crushed the Oscar’s, so going in to watch it for the first time earlier this year, which feels like a life time ago, my expectations were through the roof. I would honestly say my expectations were unfairly high as I took my seat in a surprisingly packed screening room, and still, this film knocked my socks off. It was phenomenal. The direction, the editing, the twist and turns, all of it, mwah, biggest chef’s kiss.
1340. Yorum: parasite added to the peach cinematic universe alongside cmbyn and james and the giant peach
1341. Yorum: Finally I saw Parasite and I must agree that the Oscar was pretty much deserved.
1342. Yorum: the haunting of hill house
1343. Yorum: i’ve never been this happy with the academy
1344. Yorum: Not ONLY the best film of 2019, but one of the best films of the entire decade.
1345. Yorum: I've regularly seen Bong Joon-ho's work described as "not subtle," as if it's a bad thing. Part of what's so consistently brilliant about Bong's work an unrelenting pursuit of an idea.
1347. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho is a fucking mastermind. So far he never fails to dazzle me with his tremendous cinematography.
1348. Yorum: i know film is subjective but this just has to objectively be the best film of the year !
1349. Yorum: time to get #bonghive tattooed in my eye sockets
1350. Yorum: Phenomenal.
1353. Yorum: As a depiction of ordinary people who fall into an unavoidable havoc, a comedy without one dimensional jackasses, a tragedy without villains, all leading to a violent entangle and a plunge down the stairs. A proudly unsubtle satire !
1354. Yorum: “Not “rich, but still nice”, nice because she’s rich.”
1356. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is absolutely, almost immeasurably incredible. The most spectacular quality about it is it's ability to completely defy any Western ideals of genre, opting to forge its own identity with fury and marvelous execution. In some respects it's a razor-sharp comedy that laughs in the face of imposter syndrome, and on the other hand it's this beautiful image of a family fighting tooth and nail to make the best life for one another. Parasite taps into what I believe is a universal ideal; that of making something of yourself in life, in order to repay what your family has given you. Parasite is the most poignant example of this that I've seen, with the film's climax offering such an emotional gut punch that I was genuinely speechless afterwards. Right as I thought the film was wrapped up after it's explosive denouement, I was hit with the father and son's messages to one another that makes it a masterpiece in my opinion; this family serves as a parallel to every family, both biological and otherwise, building each other up and striving to their best, especially when everything seems completely unsalvageable. I was already totally on board with the film, but it was the knockout of a final sequence that solidified this as my favourite film of the year so far.
1357. Yorum: I didn’t know much about parasite except for the hype it’s been getting and that I’ve seen two of bong jong-ho’s movies (at that point I thought only okja was his best but boy was i wrong), I made the decision of going in blind to watch the sneak when it released here on the weekend impulsively bought the ticket which turns out to be the best decision I’ve made like fuck I cannot elaborate how much this movie fucks!!! the characters did things that were terrible and messed up but at the time pulled a bunch of (sometimes) awkward yet hilarious lines! Do yourselves a favor and go watch this movie if it has already release in your cinema I promise it won’t disappoint.
1358. Yorum: absolutely fucking bonkers. everything you've heard is true, and more. one of my favorite screenplays in a long, long time. bong isn't fucking around this time. but then again, was he ever?
1359. Yorum: ruin the rich from the inside will always be one of my favorites genres.
1360. Yorum: Remember when people were upset that this won best picture? What a wild ass take that was. 
1362. Yorum: Rewatched this last night with a friend. Altough he thought he had seen it before, he didn't remember any of it halfway trough. So that plottwist hit him and blew his mind.
1363. Yorum: I scooped this one up because of the raving reviews on it, but I doubt I'll take much stock in popular opinion again anytime soon. I was completely bored through much of this film. I honestly don't understand the huge uproar about this one. It's fairly entertaining at best, aside for the maybe 10 minutes of cool bloody action in this 2+ hour film.
1366. Yorum: it’s so metaphorical!
1367. Yorum: This is so metaphorical!
1370. Yorum: i want to live in a house like this one day… minus the basement of course
1371. Yorum: "Thank you, I will drink until next morning" - Bong Joon Ho after winning oscar for best director.
1372. Yorum: the house is so well laid out in its first scene - it makes the reveal later on in the film so impactful because you already feel as if you know the house. how could a house this open be hiding anything?
1373. Yorum: A suspenseful story displaying the difference in class.
1374. Yorum: A rainy movie for a rainy day. Prosperity trickles down, all the lower classes with their upturned palms, so thankful for their flooded homes and basement dwellings. They push, pull, fight, and scheme for one extra drop, and they can only pray for a steadier stream. An urgent reminder that we all drink only when the dam collapses, even if we can only erode it bit by bit. It's an uphill struggle, but when the wall breaks, it won't just be those living at the bottom of the hill who get wet. Let them steep in that dank scent after the wave comes crashing down.
1375. Yorum: I hadn’t watched Parasite since its theatrical release back in 2019, so I figured now during my Bong Joon-Ho streak would be the ideal moment to reacquaint myself with what’s widely considered to be his magnum opus. I hope this isn’t a controversial view of the film, but while it’s obviously excellent, Parasite doesn’t hit that earth shattering sweet spot for me as it has everyone else. Three films in, Snowpiercer still resonates with me more profoundly, however making those comparisons is not at all to the detriment of Parasite’s near flawless execution. If nothing else, rewatching the film reminds me how spoilt we were with 2019’s batch of cinematic jewels.
1376. Yorum: Literally perfect
1377. Yorum: Though we largely root for the Kims, Bong doesn't allow anything as simple as rich versus poor, good versus bad. No wonder this movie speaks to global audiences - it's a parable about our capitalist world. As twisty (and twisted) as Parasite is, its plot beats are ultimately all in service of Bong's larger critique of the failings of modern capitalism, classism, and the disparities between the haves and have-nots (and not just their economic differences, either).
1379. Yorum: I saw this for the first time a little over a year ago and have not stopped thinking about it since. I didn't cry the first time, but I sobbed this time as if all the emotion I had been processing and bottling up from the first time was coming out now. I still can't write about this film, and I doubt anything I could say about this would really add to the discourse around it anyway. But this truly is a once-in-a-lifetime film.
1380. Yorum: Got you, you thought this was a negative Parasite review for attention huh?
1381. Yorum: BARBECUE THE RICH! EAT THEM OFF STICKS!
1383. Yorum: Parasite leeches onto societal dissociation to create a thrillingly hilarious satire on capitalism. “Rich people are naive. No resentments. No creases on them.”. “It all gets ironed out. Money is an iron. Those creases all get smoothed out by money.”. The Kim family, residing in the secluded darkness of a semi-underground basement apartment, acquire limited income. Jaggedly folding pizza boxes for an independent takeaway chain, with the already low-paying income reduced as a consequence of poor workmanship. They, much like the bottom-feeders of South Korea’s working class division, struggle to survive. Consuming rotting food. Hijacking neighbouring paid Wi-Fi services. Residing in potentially diseased sub-urban streets. Ultimately aspiring to achieve the lofty heights of upper-class formalities. Conceptualising the popularised term “Hell Joseon”, a critique on the current socioeconomic declining trajectory of South Korea. As the Kims tucked into their minimised dinner, son Ki-woo’s university friend gifts the family a scholar’s rock. Traditionally granting the bearer a promise of wealth. Swiftly after, he offers a proposition to Ki-woo. To continue his vocation as an English tutor for the elegant daughter of a wealthy family, the Parks. Ki-woo ponders, fabricating a plan that would seize this opportunity for beneficial gain. A chance to relish in the opposing scale of unequalised capitalism. After a successful lesson, Ki-woo insists his awareness for an art therapy teacher at the behest of the gullible Choi Yeon-gyo for her son. Ki-woo, unbeknown to the Parks, invites his sister Ki-jung to provide these lessons. Gradually, the Kim family, one-by-one, assimilate themselves into the lives of the Park family, pretending to be unrelated. The poor draining the wealth and opportunism from the rich.
1384. Yorum: Third viewing still the best of the great last year but still not perfect like The Godfather ;))
1386. Yorum: Finally got around to catching Parasite in cinema on the weekend, and can confidently say that Parasite is absolutely my favorite South Korean film.
1387. Yorum: For those of you wondering Letterboxd’s morse code message:
1388. Yorum: Happy for this masterpiece winning and making up for last year’s embarrassment.
1389. Yorum: The smell part reminded me of something a guy once said to me. Edinburgh smells of burnt toast, but Glasgow smells of pish.
1390. Yorum: Money makes monsters of us all. The desperation to obtain it. The fear of losing it. The resentment that comes with not having it. The false sense of superiority created by having it. It eats away at us all. Like one of those... what do you call em? Those small organisms that latch onto hosts and feed on them? One of of those things.
1392. Yorum: This being my 5th viewing, I’ve run out of things to write about this movie...but I didn’t run out quite as fast as the woman in the theatre who couldn’t handle all the stress of the film’s climax.
1393. Yorum: this is hands down the best film ever like are u kidding me????????? HOLY SHIT THAT WAS EXTREMELY GOOD
1396. Yorum: ‘this is so metaphorical’
1397. Yorum: In terms of pure craft, I honestly don't know if there's a single fault anywhere in this film: even the simplest shot/reverse-shot sequence has such electrifying compositions that it feels like some kind of unfathomably bold avant-garde film (indeed, the extremes of style in bare-bones moments like these are maybe even more exciting than the bravura camera movements, which announce their artistry in a way that the anything-but-routine medium close-ups don't). The two main sets are visually compared and contrasted so well it makes me feel a bit woozy, and the way that the filmmakers accentuate the inhumane geometry of the rich people's house does as much as anything in the script to explore the gulf between the upper and lower classes not just as consumers, but as emotional beings.
1398. Yorum: I’ll have to ruminate on this one a bit, but my first thought is that Parasite might be the strongest thing Bong Joon-ho has done since Mother and Memories of Murder. After flailing a bit with the over-the-top Okja and Snowpiercer, Bong has reined himself in and moved back to the slightly more grounded social commentary of Barking Dogs and The Host, to his benefit. Which isn't to say that Parasite isn't a wild ride, farce and thriller and pitch black absurdist comedy all wrapped up in one, positively Bunuelian. Definitely one of my favorite films of the year so far.
1399. Yorum: Damn, y'all are going crazy over some Park Chan-wook circa 2003 level misdirection and social themes?
1401. Yorum: WOW... and I thought Midsommar was the craziest thing I'd see this year with an ending that left me speechless... It's funny but also takes some really really dark and fucked up turns.
1402. Yorum: Well-made but too self-contained for my taste, a series of smooth, risk-free movements on an admittedly interesting playing field. Much of the action hinges on the parents, who are decidedly flat characters (the body odour storyline is the kind of cheap, purely functional narrative stunt Bong’s obvious predecessors would never have resorted to in their films), while the much more interesting son and daughter mostly fade into the background after the first half hour.
1403. Yorum: No wonder this gem got almost 10 mins standing ovation at Cannes.(
1405. Yorum: The biggest takeaway from Parasite? Work your ass off to sneak your way into someone else’s life until they can’t live without you—become totally indispensable. Then, when you’re finally living the dream, mess it all up in spectacular fashion: hidden basements, poor life decisions—oh, and don’t forget to ruin a kid’s party on your way out. Rinse, repeat, and remember—being a parasite isn’t just a job; it’s a lifestyle.
1406. Yorum: Hoollyy shit this was an emotional rollercoaster.
1407. Yorum: the sudden urge to never make plans ever again is real! also, I don’t think any of you know this film. it's pretty underground😔
1408. Yorum: Excellent movie, but if I had to watch a movie with commentary on socioeconomic status between two families, one being way more advanced and the other being much less sophisticated...
1409. Yorum: Shoutout to all the sons who got enrolled in Boy Scouts so they could be taught discipline and survival skills but really just ended up learning half of urban dictionary.
1410. Yorum: Everything that can be said about Parasite has already been said in exhaustive detail ten times over, and the few people just now trickling towards it will find a dearth of human opinions, analysis, and overwhelming praise to sift through, making it impossible to have anything new to add to discussion that their fellow man hasn't already expressed in a myriad of ways. I myself normally wouldn't have much I could feasibly add, given how I've already delivered two reviews that meet my usual detailed standard, both within the euphoria of its nominations and eventually wins at the Academy Awards that fully reflected the art of great filmmaking more than anything, and said what could have been considered thoughtful, excited reflections that's hard to add onto without a sense of looming redundancy. Having loved it twice before, just what could I possibly add to my statements?
1411. Yorum: The reason I watch movies for entertainment is BECAUSE I can’t read. The world is against me.
1412. Yorum: the more i rewatch this the better it gets. perfection
1413. Yorum: Oh my this was just incredible...
1414. Yorum: First watch of the decade has to be spectacular so I chose Parasite
1415. Yorum: I'm unqualified to pronounce large-scale judgments concerning Korean cinema, as someone who doesn't live in Korea and thus is only exposed to what's deemed worthy of export. But being unqualified never stopped anyone from doing anything, and as such I feel pretty comfortable in pronouncing Korean filmmakers the world's current authority on the class narrative. Hailing from the Empire of Income Inequality, I have yet to see anything from modern American film that comes close to capturing the yawning chasm between the affluent and everyone else as what I see portrayed regularly in Korean movies, embodied by last year's Burning, and this year's Parasite.
1416. Yorum: I'm afraid I haven't seen Memories of Murder, but of the three Bong Joon-Ho films I've seen, this is, by far, my favorite. A main character keeps saying how metaphorical things are, and I'm fairly certain that the film, itself, is an allegory. This element of the film worked the best for me since a dissection of social classes couldn't be more needed. Just look to recent Chilean, Bolivian, and Brazilian protests for more proof.
1419. Yorum: Is there any other movie that covers as many genres as Parasite? Drama, dark comedy, thriller and horror, romance and mystery, it’s all there, blended, crafted and presented masterfully.
1420. Yorum: “They are nice because they are rich.”
1421. Yorum: One moment that I always love in this is the walk home in the rain. The first time I saw this, I was still recovering from what had happened in the basement—an insane unravelling on a level I hadn’t seen before—but I had one thought. “I wish we’d seen this hike before.” I was being impacted by just how far down they go—I counted today, there are six different places they are shown descending—and wished we’d been shown it before, as it’s such a good visual metaphor. However, every time I’ve seen it since, I’m so glad that it waits until then to show you. 
1422. Yorum: Parasite is the most accurate title ever, because this actually lives like a parasite in my heart
1423. Yorum: Put this one when I'm bored or have nothing else to do and I'll enjoy myself. My favorite movie with ease, go (re)watch it!
1424. Yorum: Don’t look down, stay where you are
1425. Yorum: Masterpiece. Genre bending. With each and every viewing there’s something new to parcel out. Getting better and better every single time. 
1426. Yorum: I could watch this on repeat forever
1427. Yorum: Ki-taek: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares.
1428. Yorum: istg I believe that tent was from ikea
1429. Yorum: pizza delivery girl you will always be famous
1431. Yorum: This film has no right to be as good as it is. Everything is just so perfectly crafted. From the genre bending, to the tightly written plot. From the meticulous direction, to the masterclass acting. From the symbolic representation of social power, to the ambiguity of its title.
1432. Yorum: I'm finally giving "Parasite" the 5 stars out of 5. It's so intricate and familiar while also seeming like something very far away from me.
1433. Yorum: it’s very good. I mean, what else were you expecting me to say?
1434. Yorum: I was happily content watching the latest Netflix actioner one evening when my wife came back into the living room after putting our little man to sleep.
1435. Yorum: Actually very funny. Then VERY intense
1436. Yorum: the twist happened and the only other person in the theatre yelled "WHAT??"
1437. Yorum: Third watch, still golden. It’s quite interesting that when I watch this film with other people, they get disappointed by the end. Maybe I hyped the film too much...
1438. Yorum: 11:10am: With Letterboxd down for 30+ minutes, I was collecting my thoughts on how Bong Joon-ho’s masterpiece was masterfully crafted with just high class directing. Still to this day, I’m so bummed that I missed this 10/10 gem in theaters last year because it would’ve been one of the best theater experiences in my life if I were to be in a quiet, dark auditorium with a packed audience. It was kinda like me when I finally saw La La Land back in February 2017 in a nice and comfy theater with lots of film-goers there after a stressful day at college. Except with Parasite, I’m a college graduate and I don’t need to worry about countless of hard assignments from my college professors. I can go into any theater and get myself immersed into a movie with well-written characters and an intriguing plot without thinking too much about my hard-working life including my job and overall life. But, I still was able to get that cinematic feeling from home. Parasite is a true spectacle to behold for all you die-hard film enthusiasts out there.
1440. Yorum: Seeing this movie on the IMAX screen was one of the neatest and most surreal experiences of my life. I would have never thought this would have been a timeline we lived in. Where this small little Bong Joon Ho film won Best Picture and is now being played on IMAX. It's just a reminder that good things do happen in this world.
1441. Yorum: It is interesting to me that both Parasite and Us have through lines commenting on the naivety and ignorance of the upper class to the plight of those quite literally below the poverty line. Each film addresses the idea that a capitalist society creates a situation in which the poor must claw their way to the top through infighting in order to ascend, and both movies do so by way of a metaphor that puts the lower classes literally beneath the upper classes. There was a lot of thematic overlap that made for a really interesting double feature. 
1442. Yorum: maybe the real parasite was the academy for snubbing park so-dam
1444. Yorum: A work of art. It constantly keeps you on your toes. Watch it.
1445. Yorum: "I caught a bouquet from a bitch I never met."
1447. Yorum: If not for some music choices early on that sounded royalty free, some on the nose dialogue throughout, & an inane dragged out third act with a lackluster denouement & ending that had me leaving the theatre unmoved, this could’ve been my favorite of the year behind The Lighthouse. Obviously a great movie otherwise though! Phenomenal performances across the board, an original gripping story with intriguing characters to boot, marvelous technical craft, fabulous pacing, an intricate blend of suspense & comedy that works both ways, & a fascinating examination of what it truly means to eat the rich in addition to human nature in the age of capitalism.
1448. Yorum: I didn’t really think anything was gonna pass Midsommar for me as my fav film of the year, especially with the extreme amount of hype I had for this film...but I was still blown away regardless.
1449. Yorum: "Do it clockwise."
1450. Yorum: i was almost late for class after but that just added onto the adrenaline
1452. Yorum: It is always exciting to see what the Frenchies decided was film of the year as it never fails to be a better pic than whatever the Hollywood circle-jerk showers with a bukkake of critical accolades come Springtime. Little did I expect Cannes Film Festival to award the prestigious Palme D’or this year to a director who has been one of my least favorite filmmakers...until now. Bong Joon-ho’s English film debut, 2013’s Snowpiercer, struck me as overrated and dumb while 2017’s Okja was cartoonish and ham-fisted. It didn’t help that he’d relegated two of my favorite actors, Tilda Swinton and Jake Gyllenhaal, to cringe-inducing career-low sideshow performers. Besides that, I just couldn’t vibe with his grotesque and bumbling concoction of family-friendly cuteness, ultra violence, and quirky humor. It reeked of trying too hard and failed to land with me at every turn. With that said, let me be the first and most surprised person to say with no reservations Parasite is easily one of the best movies I’ve seen this year.
1453. Yorum: PARASITE is like a ticking bomb. From the very beginning you can feel a sense of chaos coming but it's never too obvious. But then, a twist happens and you can feel the explosion right in your face and it is just marvelous to behold. The way it contrasts the parallels between poverty and wealthy. Between family and complete strangers. Between what's important to some may not be to others. This a riveting movie. Truly the film of the year.
1454. Yorum: A goddamn riot, but probably Joon-Ho’s least elegant work craft-wise. None of his observations regarding class warfare are particularly illuminating; it doesn’t help that the film is also formally monotonous. Joon-Ho does highlight the vertical hierarchy that quite literally puts the bourgeoisie at the top and the working class at the bottom, yet he never bothers following up on ideas he has previously teased at the onset. He milks his rudimentary understanding of class to the very last drop, incorporating it into the film’s form wholesale — just how many bird’s eye shots of poor people descending stairs must the viewer gawk at before they’re qualified to become the next Durkheim? Still a good time at the movies, but let’s stop pretending it’s deeper than your average satire.
1455. Yorum: i am gonna lose my goddamn mind........ there's too much to unpack i am not sleeping tonight girlies!
1457. Yorum: The scene in which Da-Song sees the "ghost" is everything: to him and his family, it's supernatural horror; to our main characters and the "ghost" himself, it's a very real disgrace. Being a ghost is scarier than seeing a ghost. And anyone can become a ghost, no matter how qualified one is.
1458. Yorum: I N S A N E 🍑
1459. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. No plan.” ⭐️
1460. Yorum: Parasite is still a damn fantastic film! Everything about it is amazing. I love how it bends many genres, has a pretty original concept and a pretty big twist. I still don’t know what I think about the ending. Such a good film, and one of the rare films that actually deserved the best picture win at the Oscars.
1461. Yorum: My friends love this movie
1463. Yorum: R E S P E C T
1464. Yorum: November 4, 2019 marks a first for me: I watched a movie in theatres twice in a row, as in the screening I came for ended and I literally just couldn’t bring myself to leave the theatre. I had to watch the very next showing of the same film. That’s how remarkable Parasite is - it lives up to every bit of the hype generated by my fellow movie lovers around the world. I’d go so far as to call it the greatest film released in my adult life. This gush will do for now - tomorrow I’ll get up and log my second viewing with a longer reflection on the film. But definitely see it if you haven’t, and I concur with others - AVOID SPOILERS AND EVEN THE TRAILER! I went in 100% cold and it was the way to do it (that’s right - I’ve been liking your Parasite reviews without even reading them lol).
1465. Yorum: An instance classic, instantly quotable and I instantly nutted when it ended
1466. Yorum: Urgh. The nuclear hype over this movie is sickening. There must something in the water because hordes of people have been gripped by some Groupthink, hive-mind mass delusion. By any objective measure, Parasite is grossly overrated. Technically good, with decent cinematography and good acting, but apart from that, it's just dull, and (IMO) morally repugnant.
1467. Yorum: A work of sheer genius from a filmmaker who never fails to make a deep impression on me.
1468. Yorum: I'm so glad i can watch movies
1470. Yorum: I had a class with a guy who said that he loved this movie because it exposed the true evil of communism 😕
1472. Yorum: oh my god. this film is so beautifully made and the story of the film is really really good. i can see why this movie gets such high ratings. its funny, shocking, tense and bloody all at once which is absolutely amazing.
1474. Yorum: "Ki-woo, you know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. No plan. You know why? If you make a plan, life never works out that way."
1476. Yorum: gag of the century right here...
1477. Yorum: And almost 4 years later... this still slaps🔥
1478. Yorum: This is what I call a "note-takin' movie." I have some attention issues, so I feel like I don't catch things some times, which is why I really did take notes! In a notebook! Like school!
1480. Yorum: If you think Korea doesn't have beautiful products, watch this and you'll change your mind
1481. Yorum: the second act, holy shit. i completely understand the hype
1484. Yorum: eat some peaches and kill the riches!!
1485. Yorum: if you’ve never swam in the ocean then of course a pool seems deep.
1486. Yorum: writing a review for parasite is kind of pointless.parasite speaks for itself.i think(and sorry if this will sound pretentious) that parasite is the citize kane of our generation.because in 70 years from now, every perfect aspect of parasite is going to be studied in film schools.every brilliant frame,every fantastic line of dialogue,every genius cut is going to be analysed to death.
1487. Yorum: “Even though he always seems about to cross the line, he never does cross it.”
1488. Yorum: Watching this again and I like it a lot more. It’s so incredibly clever and funny and yet so heartbreaking all at the same time. Even if I don’t like the oscars, I full heartedly believe that this movie deserved to win best picture. It’s an experience that’s different from any other movie I’ve ever seen. I still think people have kinda blown its amazing-ness a little bit out of proportion though. As someone who loves it, I feel like the people who REALLY love it are a tad annoying at times. But like, a hardcore group of stans are annoying, what else is new. But if I let the annoyance of a group of people get to me then I wouldn’t be a fan of a lot of movies and other franchises. 
1489. Yorum: the girls sitting next to me at the cinema were gasping every 3 seconds, as they should
1490. Yorum: i have been crying for the past 30 minutes. after an excruciatingly long bus ride, steeped in anticipation, i raced home only to find out my tv had been a bitch and only recorded the first hour of the oscars. disappointed but not surprised. by the time best original screenplay rolled around, i was only half paying attention because, as much as i thought parasite deserved to win, i had zero faith that it would. and then they announced it. and when i tell you i broke down, i BROKE DOWN. the waterworks and all. each year, what i believe to be the best films of the year, slip through the cracks and don’t receive the recognition they deserve. it has reached the point where i have just about lost all faith in award shows. after downloading the screenplay days earlier, i had gained an even greater appreciation of the subtle nuances within it and, let me just say, never before had i seen a film so worthy win an award. i came to the end of the recording and, by this point had only seen five awards announced. after a whole day of hiding from spoilers being thrown around left and right on literally every social media site ever, i realised i would have to look up the winner for best picture. my heart was pounding, hands trembling. the stakes were so high because i love this film so much and it was so far above the competition it’s not even funny. instantly i was flooded with news headlines. PARASITE PARASITE PARASITE. this was history in the making right here. i had dragged my mum along to watch this in august having heard very little about it and, as the credits rolled, we were at a loss for words, silent on the car ride home simultaneously in awe and unable to comprehend what we had just watched. nothing i can say would do this film justice, i told my friends the only way they’d understand was to watch it themselves. DON’T LOOK ANYTHING UP, GO IN BLIND, BE PREPARED TO HAVE YOUR MIND BLOWN, is what i’d say. until then, all i could do was sit in silence with my mum being the only person i could vent to about the beauty of parasite. yesterday, i ran through the rain to the store just to swipe a parasite dvd and carried it with me my entire shift (perks of having no locker). why do i mention this? because i think it’s testament to how bloody brilliant this film is. (pun intended)
1492. Yorum: i caught a lot more of its subtleties - both narratively and stylistically - this time around since i didn’t have to work my brains off to understand french subtitles until i saw baguettes everywhere. LOVE IT. there’s an air of greatness to it from start to finish, like a greek myth. destiny and a cruel yet wise maestro behind the curtain. the halfway turn from black comedy to thriller is magnificent. only been a couple months since i saw it in cinemas and it is still as strikingly intense as then, so i will likely rewatch it here and there in the future.
1494. Yorum: Okay... y'all were right. This movie is exceptional. I'm not sure what I was expecting, but it definitely wasn't this. Tight plotting and excellent build up to a tense and unexpected third act... but consistently funny and somehow charming too! Brilliant in its simplicity and small scale. Completely impressed by this entire production.
1496. Yorum: How could you not give this 5 stars. Like what more could you want in a movie?
1498. Yorum: “If I had all this I would be kinder.”
1499. Yorum: it’s all very metaphorical, isn’t it. a capitalist horror show. can’t wait to rewatch.
1500. Yorum: Two personally recommended house staff? That's possible. Three personally recommended house staff? There's an outside chance. But four personally recommended house staff? I'd like to see that!
1501. Yorum: "People who ride the subway have a special smell."
1502. Yorum: I had such high expectations for this film considering the hype and Bong Joon-Ho smashes it out of the fucking park with Parasite. My only regret is not going in as blind as possible about it.
1503. Yorum: this film...literally THIS film...what’s new?
1504. Yorum: [chanting] eat the rich
1506. Yorum: You can read hundreds of reviews for this movie heaping it with praise, saying it’s amazing and it still can’t prepare you for just how fucking good this is. 
1509. Yorum: ADDED TO "2019 RANKED" :) 
1511. Yorum: for some reason this time around (watch #5) i picked up on SO many little details that seal the deal that this such a groundbreaking all-timer. i know it’s rated extremely highly but if any film deserves it, it’s parasite. i always forget how amazing it is.
1512. Yorum: Right before I started the black and white version on the new criterion release, Bong gave an introduction about a movie being black and white. He talked about how you begin to notice more detail in the movie as you watch them in black and white. He is not wrong! I felt more tension throughout this rewatch that reminds me of watching a Hitchcock movie. I noticed how some of the objects in the movie helps convey more about how each of these characters embody a little bit of their counterpart. Hiding their hidden desires for a different life, but have become somewhat contempt with their current status quo. You begin to notice how clean or dirty some of the clothing of the characters are. How images are hiding behind mirrors so people can blend in and keep the class disparity at bay. The characters all have this idea that their status or life style can last forever, but we see a sequence of events that show how delusional they can be sadly. I swear, every time I see the scene where someone yeets a golf club, I am waiting for someone to say, “MY LEG”! But yeah, this movie is still the shit. Bong is great. Time to listen to some special features.
1513. Yorum: Fantastic film. I was taken in from the beginning and even with it being over two hours long it never lost my attention. It was funny in the best places as well. Great film.
1514. Yorum: 92nd Time's the Charm (6/9)
1515. Yorum: burn the witch? nah, burn the rich
1516. Yorum: breaking my own stupid rule about not giving five stars on first viewings because this is a perfect movie and capitalism is a disease
1517. Yorum: I walked out of the cinema, and it was raining.
1518. Yorum: The amount of dots I connected watching this a second time...this film truly is something to behold.
1519. Yorum: I had read many positive reviews of Parasite, and had become curious.
1520. Yorum: Masterpiece. Best movie I’ve seen in a real long time. GO IN COLD! Thank you.
1522. Yorum: I sat at my computer screen for 30 min, dumbfounded, scratching my head trying to think of something to write. All I can say is that it's Joon-ho's magnum opus and everyone should just go see it NOW! (please).
1524. Yorum: rewatched this today, and it’s just as amazing as i remember. the opening and closing shots always get me, they were done so perfectly.
1525. Yorum: whenever i rewatch parasite i think maybe this will be the time i find cracks. yeah no, it remains one of the very few films i consider to be absolutely perfect.
1526. Yorum: Okay nvm. RIP Dune 2, Parasite earns the number one spot. I did many rewatches of Dune 2, and I can now say that Parasite is just a TINY little bit better. But it's very close, like they're kinda on par with each other!
1527. Yorum: Parasite is the movie that finally put Bong Joon-ho on the map after he won Best Director, Best Original Screenplay, Best International Feature Film, and Best Picture at the 2020 Academy Awards. Much like everyone else, this is my first Bong Joon-ho film I ever watched, and I immediately knew that this was probably going to be in my top ten favourite movies ever made after I finished watching it all those years ago. So, does the film still hold up on a rewatch? Does it still deserve the title of one of the best movies ever made? Absolutely yes to both questions. Parasite is a movie that was so well deserving of the Best Picture Academy Award and the Palme d'Or that it solidified its place as one of the greatest movies ever made.
1528. Yorum: Would it be controversial if I said this is one of best films of the 21st century if not the best? Whatever I am going to say it anyways
1529. Yorum: “They are nice because they’re rich”
1530. Yorum: The best use of a location I’ve ever seen in a film.
1531. Yorum: “if you make a plan, life never works out that way.”
1532. Yorum: timed it so when new years hit Song Kang-ho was stabbing the rich patriarch in the chest
1533. Yorum: Watched in black and white this time. At the start I was worried the lack of color would ruin some striking scenes such as Da-song’s party, but surprisingly I wasn’t bothered by it. This just proves that no matter how you watch Parasite, it will always remain a masterpiece. It got me into film. I hold Parasite dearest to my heart, and it’s one I have nothing but love for
1535. Yorum: Just peachy
1536. Yorum: It’s fairly easy to see how Parasite took damn near every film circle by storm late in 2019 into 2020. It’s a nonstop thrill ride, there’s no denying that, and the thesis behind the film also appears to be overly palatable and generally agreeable, even towards western audiences, who it feels like are the demographic Bong made this for. A social message regarding class consciousness which is made in order to be palatable, and not to provide a nuanced take on the issue, comes with its own slew of inherent drawbacks however. The shallowness of this allegory can be seen right from the beginning, with the working class Kim family literally depicted in a basement, seemingly lost in the forgotten depths of society’s dirtiest corner, while the bourgeois Parks are written with the worst, shallowest, stereotypes of ignorant rich people you will ever see. There’s nothing wrong with this i suppose, as Bong is accomplishing what he set out to, but there is just no nuance to these portrayals whatsoever thematically. Despite the film’s misguided attempts at achieving class consciousness, i still can’t find myself disliking this movie because it is simply too effective from a non-thematic sense. Luckily, no amount of stupid metaphors can detract much from my enjoyment when the filmmaking is the hypnotic and precise.
1537. Yorum: ermmm this says a lot about society 🤓 (im rlly rlly fucking stupid with a shitty piss poo brain so i didn’t understand)
1538. Yorum: A ghost story of sorts in which two families from opposite ends of the socioeconomic spectrum, living mutually dependent but ultimately separate lives, haunt each other inside a grand, modernist edifice. The ghost is, of course, class and the insurmountable chasm between the haves and have nots. The poor Kim family, like the stink bugs that infest their squalid but lived-in basement dwelling—so different from the spacious but lifeless mansion occupied by the Parks—even carry the smell of their otherness.
1542. Yorum: let’s get this class war going! in all seriousness, this movie is mind-blowingly thought provoking. it is every bit as good as everyone has said it is. every aspect of this movie is specifically thought out. it just left me floored. i know i’ll be thinking about this for a long time.
1543. Yorum: showed it to my parents just so i could see their reaction to the peach scene and i was not disappointed. my dad can’t speak but he clapped A LOT and my mom kept saying “these people!!!” over and over so it was a success.
1544. Yorum: I noticed with this rewatch how often “having a plan” is mentioned in this film. Constantly the characters ask “what next” or “what’s the plan” and frequently become frustrated or confused when things don’t go the way they wanted it to. This entire film really represents how impossible it is to know what will happen next in our lives, no matter how meticulously we make our choices. Like Kim said, the best plan is no plan. 
1545. Yorum: Happy Birthday to King Bong!!! We luv u!!! 💖💖💖
1546. Yorum: 🏘 With no plan, nothing can go wrong 🏘
1548. Yorum: Rainstorms are beautiful for those who don’t have to drown in them. Then again, to even be able to find the rain beautiful is to be ignorant of, maybe complicit in, the suffering of those drenched.
1549. Yorum: An unemployed family of four living in a basement apartment in Seoul one by one gains employment in the home of a wealthy tech entrepreneur through fraud and deceit, stepping over the rich family's original employees to take their positions. Hence the title "Parasite". You see how the title applies to everyone in the film in one way or another as you get deeper into it. Pretty soon it's evident that the capitalist system itself is parasitic making everyone caught up in it parasites feeding off of anyone they can in a big rat race. It's kind of Darwinian and makes you question what the point of it all is. The family seems to love and watch out for each other, however. There's warmth in there like a family saga that has you rooting for them to pull this caper off. But that's not entirely what this is about. Through scheming and deceit they make it into this beautiful mansion where things start spiraling out of control as the picture veers from insanely sharp humor to escalating levels of violence and then even a killer slasher film vibe as a symbol of pent up resentment over the blatant injustice of it all. The Koreans kind of kick ass here in how to make a movie.
1550. Yorum: First review: letterboxd.com/thommy1801/film/parasite-2019/
1551. Yorum: A must-watch for people who love a bit of detail.
1552. Yorum: where was song kang-ho’s best actor nomination!!!!!!!!!! no one’s doing it like him
1553. Yorum: BuT iT's NoT gOnE wItH tHe WiNd.
1554. Yorum: This film was as incredible as advertised and then some. An all-timer. 
1555. Yorum: Black and White edition! 
1557. Yorum: masterpiece. that's it, that's my review
1558. Yorum: if we’re not celebrating this as our best picture winner in seven days time, we have done something seriously wrong as a society
1559. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho’s PARASITE is the greatest film I’ve ever seen. I’ve seen it 5 times now and I’ve never seen a film which perfects its craft quite like this. The pacing is so painstakingly done, it’s fast and a joy to watch; with the classical compositions leading every scene and beat of the story. The cinematography and directing is flawless, every frame is necessary and completely fulfills the hilarious and emotional script. This thing goes through so many tones and styles from dark comedy to horror / thriller without ever missing a beat, and it’s awe-inspiring. I have a passionate love for cinema, and films like PARASITE are the reason I watch movies and this is the only film I could recommend to absolutely anyone. It transcends genre as an accessible and entertaining film for anyone of any culture or political background.
1561. Yorum: A grand combination of all of bongs themes and stylish flourishes making one of the most tense, sad, and entertaining films of the year. Sincerely have not read a single good negative take on this film.
1562. Yorum: I already wish I could erase my memory and see it again. By far the best thing I've seen all year. It's everything in one and so much more.
1565. Yorum: this is it...this is THE perfect film and now i won’t stop thinking about it
1566. Yorum: I'm sorry, but Burning kind of already occupies my place for South Korean film dealing with class divides, misplaced anger, and delusional artistic projection, unto which an unavoidable ending occurs, with lots of tonal shifts, and surprises... plus that one is more tuned into the real world, which ultimately makes it more effective. That's not to undermine what Parasite does on it's own merit, it's just, I don't feel like I'm actually seeing anything new, conceptually (and so recently for that matter). On the surface level, it's certainly intriguing and enjoyable, but even then, I feel like it doesn't go as far as the story needed it to. The "twist" is definitely surprising, but then, it just kind of sits there. It ends up being more a comedy of manners, or even, a farce, when it could have been something more horrifying/crazy, which would've been far more effective allegorically. Also (I'm trying to get all the comparisons/negatives out of the way, because there are praises I want to bestow), this seems like it doesn't want to indict anyone in the problems with capitalism, whereas, Burning wants to indict everyone; that subtle difference I think is crucial in effectiveness (everyone’s a victim vs. everyone is culpable). This wears it's allegorical sleeve proudly as if it's the first to make the observation, whereas Burning is starting to point fingers.
1567. Yorum: 5. September 2018 5⭐️ City Lights (1931) 5.January 2019 5⭐️ Andrei Rublev (1966) 
1568. Yorum: Utterly speechless. How Bong Joon Ho manages to seamlessly transition from tongue in cheek satire to a weighty commentary on classism is not only masterful...it shouldn’t be possible, yet here we are with Parasite. What a remarkably powerful yet darkly comedic social commentary that continuously keeps you guessing through its descent into insanity. This is a SERIOUS awards contender. Still in awe. A straight up masterpiece.
1569. Yorum: it’s been SO LONG since i last watched a film that made my heart race. 
1570. Yorum: Full review on Jakarta Post click here
1571. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho’s “Parasite” is nothing short of a cinematic masterpiece. The film’s ability to seamlessly integrate its core message into the narrative sets it apart as an incredible achievement in storytelling. Rather than relying on explicit exposition, “Parasite” employs its cinematography as an essential storytelling tool, elevating the narrative and magnifying the film’s impact.
1572. Yorum: There was no parasite
1574. Yorum: Awful. Americans actually trekking out to a theater to see this junk is sad but our elites anointing this nonsense is tragic. Parasite asks you to accept deeply immoral urges as a form of sympathetic expression. It’s a Trojan horse film that forgives and promotes what it pretends to criticize. Worse than Joker and Irishman. Sick!
1575. Yorum: After watching The Handmaiden (another widely-acclaimed South Korean film) only a few days ago, I think my expectations for Parasite were elevated to a completely unattainable level.
1576. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho, you savage! This was one of the most amazing things i’ve ever seen. A masterpiece. An instant classic. Amazingly-directed. Truly hilarious. Very weird. Stellar acting. Beautifully-shot. Exquisitely-written. Darn it, just give this the awards it can get. Please, give Song Kang-ho & Jo Yeo-jeong some nominations, too. Wow, bravo! I can’t stop thinking about it!
1577. Yorum: Eh, I don’t get the hype. This felt about as half baked as Okja—though not nearly as horrendous in its (equally unnecessary) tone shifts. The idea of the working class fighting each other instead of fighting the structure that keeps them downtrodden as a horror concept is a good one, it’s interesting, but I don’t feel like this film even fully believes in that as a message.
1578. Yorum: If nothing else, it's better than Shoplifters.
1579. Yorum: Hard to talk about this without getting into that final scene, so let me just say, without hyperbole, that it is one of the most powerful (and heartbreaking) condemnations of the class divide and capitalistic systems ever depicted in film.
1580. Yorum: easily one of the best movies ever made, oh my god
1581. Yorum: “What am I up to? I’m smoking a poop-covered cig on an exploding toilet.”
1582. Yorum: 9/10. Damn, what a well crafted and intense film. Now I see what the fuss is all about. Bong Joon Ho proves himself to be a brilliant filmmaker to be reckoned with. A twisty plot with hard hitting themes such as social class and money. This psychological drama turns up the suspense and intensity all the way up to eleven. It’s tightly paced and well acted.
1583. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho Day at Le Grand Rex: The Host and Parasite
1584. Yorum: "It's metaphorical."
1585. Yorum: I wish I took notes for this. There were several points in this rewatch where I thought, “I should pause this, grab a notepad and pencil, and start taking notes. There’s no way I’ll remember all these details I want to comment on once I get to writing.”. But I didn’t. I couldn’t! This was my dad’s introduction to one of my favourite directors, Bong Joon-ho, but also his introduction to Korean cinema in general, especially Korean thriller which I have an affinity for. So I couldn’t just pause it! Anyone who’s watched Parasite knows what a truly immersive experience this is, and to rob someone of the full experience by pausing it, would just be annoying and pointless. So I guess next time I watch this, I’ll write something a little bit more comprehensive? Off the top of my head I remember a good deal of those details I had something to say about, but I’d much rather save it for a full review rather than half-ass it. Either way, I think I’m going to start whipping out a little notebook and pencil (when reasonable) during viewings so I can remember what it is that stuck out to me, absolutely all of it. 
1587. Yorum: “That rain was such a blessing.”
1588. Yorum: if something is gonna try to change the trajectory of my life it’s gonna be this film right here
1589. Yorum: The pure bliss and overwhelming joy that took over me when I saw this is back at #1 on Letterboxd.
1590. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho really woke up one morning and decided to make the best movie ever made. Every few weeks I rewatch the peach scene just to check I can still feel something.
1591. Yorum: if you give less than 5 stars to this movie you are wrong
1592. Yorum: party rock is in the house tonight! everybody just have a good time (yeah!) and we gon’ make you lose your mind (woo!) everybody just have a good time!
1593. Yorum: Such a blast to revisit this modern classic. This fourth viewing was my first time not seeing it on the big screen. Around a year ago I went to the sold out B&W premiere at IFFR with some of my film school friends and that was such a great night. The Q&A with Bong was awesome too, obviously. Just flexing on y’all that I was in the same room as him ;)
1594. Yorum: Showing Lance for the first time.
1595. Yorum: spectacular. hate myself for not watching this earlier.
1596. Yorum: A story of two families at opposite sides of the social spectrum. The poor ('Kim) family hatch a scheme to become employed by the wealthy ('Park') family, by posing as professional / qualified workers. 
1598. Yorum: PARASITE is an amazing film.  When I finished it, my first thought was that it was a distinctive movie that had been over-hyped.  Then, scenes kept coming back unbidden into my mind ... and connecting both with other scenes in the story and with personal moments.  As I began to realize the depth of what has been achieved here, I was stunned.
1600. Yorum: I believe in Bong Joon Ho supremacy
1602. Yorum: Hype can be so damaging to expectation especially when you see award nominations sweeping in and the film community are praising a movie so high that surely it has to be perfect. Fortunately this time the hype is just a teaser for the expectation and as the expectation was at fever pitch as I took my seat for the movie, I let the film wash over me while I laughed, was on the edge of my seat and dropped my jaw several times at some of the stunning views. 
1604. Yorum: walked out and an old lady stopped in front of me to turn to me and say “haha! let’s all go watch A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood now!” which i think was meant to be a dig against Parasite????
1605. Yorum: The best movie of the year.
1606. Yorum: HOW DO I GIVE THIS 5000 STARS
1607. Yorum: me: parasite is the best film of the decade
1608. Yorum: Crossing the line...
1610. Yorum: Mr. Park was very wrong because this smells like pure excellence.
1614. Yorum: Trickle down economics straight from the asshole
1615. Yorum: Watched it with my parents. Quite an exciting thing because they had never seen a South Korean film prior to this. My mother liked it a lot and I still have no clue what my father thinks, but I think it's still positive lol!
1616. Yorum: i wish my mother would get off that damn phone and pay full attention to the movies i try to show her. her attention span is worse than an ipad kid’s at this point
1618. Yorum: Hello all, I wrote and recorded a video where I recommend movies from the LB top 250. I don’t recommend this one (in the video, not generally — though I do have a video about Parasite here), but it’s the top of the list so it made sense to use this as a representation.
1619. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's anti capitalistic societal satire is a definitive genre blender that goes on to provide the delightful dramatic satisfaction while intrinsically tackling on much serious issues of class dissidence which are not solely limited to a specific contemporary society. Even though Bong's superlative peak can arguably stand to be 'Memories of Murder' 2003, exploring psychological states of brutality in the most non substantial manner, 'Parasite' will stand it's position in being a close second with it's abundant usage of ambiguity.
1620. Yorum: I'm obviously treading very carefully with this review considering what happened first time round. Just a reminder that if you report reviews for spoilers then you're a cop.
1621. Yorum: I got tapeworm to make the premiere extra special, but there were no tapeworms in the movie, so it wasn't really worth it also none of the actors knew english which is funny because last time i checked actors were american
1622. Yorum: Parasite would have received 5 stars if not for the questionable violence in the last act, which slightly marred my impression of one of the main characters. I could see why this was included, but it could have been avoided, as it arguably paints the working class in a similar light to the upper class. Other than that, Parasite is a splendid and engaging movie with great pacing and nice character arcs. The music and the lighting were great too. The music nicely captured, and accentuated, the atmosphere.
1623. Yorum: I’ve heard a lot of people compare this to Joker. I think Joker is better directed (I hate how every single shot seems to last like 20 seconds. Eisenstein would hate this), but Parasite is so much better written. The acting is about even, but the characterization is far stronger here.
1626. Yorum: Exiting the theater, some woman behind said:
1627. Yorum: Despite an astonishing sense of precision, this film feels like it was written in a single session, the fingers furiously working the keyboard, angry and amused and sad. It might be the rush of immediacy, but seldom have I experienced such deeply sincere, faceted and sweeping emotion flicker over a screen.
1628. Yorum: After watching Parasite I now feel like I'm living in the famous story of The Emperor’s New Clothes; Everybody seems to rave about this films greatness when in all honesty I find it to be an about average movie that while it definitely carries some promising ideas both conceptually and visually it, as soon as it gets to the halfway point, it starts to suffer from some of the worst writing I've seen on film. The critical consensus, however, seems to be that that Bong Joon-ho's latest work is nothing short of a masterpiece, which just boggles me and now has me obsessed in a so far unsuccessful quest to find a single negative review of it.
1629. Yorum: I am so glad I decide to break my brief sabbatical from film with this. Parasite is everything that makes cinema great. Taught, exciting, infuriating, saddening, and ultimately so poignant you feel utterly transfixed as the credits roll by.
1630. Yorum: Great movies are like magic and Parasite is one of the best magic tricks I've ever seen.
1632. Yorum: Today is a rewatch day and so why not watch one of the best class movies ever made? Exactly as fresh as the first day I saw it.
1633. Yorum: Finally got the entire fam watch this masterpiece after so many nights of begging. It's just as fucking good as the first time.
1634. Yorum: "They say a ghost in the house brings wealth. Actually, the money's been good recently."
1635. Yorum: Perfection at it’s finest.
1639. Yorum: A great film teaching those that treating people wrongly has a greater effect on them than you can imagine.
1644. Yorum: A very unique experience that I didn’t really expect.
1646. Yorum: Still perfect!!
1647. Yorum: One of the easiest 5 stars ever given.
1648. Yorum: There is no such thing as overhyping Parasite. It’s that good.
1649. Yorum: They are rich but still nice.
1650. Yorum: Like yesterday’s film, Parasite was a film I unfortunately missed at the cinema. I was very excited to finally be able to see it because I am a massive fan of Bong Joon-ho’s films, especially Mother and Snowpiercer. 
1652. Yorum: i finally got my sister to watch it with me and her commentary made for a better watch.. she gave it a 4/5 and im still wondering what she thought it lacked.
1653. Yorum: As an Asian person I can definitively say that all Asian Birthday parties end up like this...
1654. Yorum: Just as good the 2nd time around! Love it!
1656. Yorum: The edit of Moon-Gwang vomiting in the toilet immediately cutting to the semi-basement toilet spewing sewage is such a brutally inspired choice that in any other movie, it would be the clear standout. Here, it took me three viewings to realize just how subtle Bong Joon-Ho's machinations are both in this scene and in the film at large, and just how well they are able to deliver the message at play.
1659. Yorum: And finally this one found its way to Finnish cinemas! Of course my expectations were enormous, but it was definitely worth the wait. A masterclass in writing; every single action and moment is so deliberate and so well paced that nothing seems even a bit irrelevant. The class commentary is at the same time both clever and gloriously in-your-face.
1660. Yorum: i wonder what min had to say about all of this when he saw it on the news
1663. Yorum: “If you make a plan life never turns out that way”
1665. Yorum: Even better the second time around!
1666. Yorum: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
1667. Yorum: Absolutely immaculate. The best cinematic experience of the year. The comedy, the suspense, and the drama, everything lands! Everything. Not a single line of dialogue or performance was off in the slightest, and every frame felt necessary. Thorough and masterfully crafted, a classic.
1668. Yorum: Well, yesterday was an interesting day. After work, I went to the movies and watched a really great foreign film, that might have just entered in my favorite films from 2019! I’m talking about the most talked about film from director Bong Joon-Ho, Parasite!
1669. Yorum: Man, the new movie by the guy who directed Snowpiercer is really picking up steam!
1671. Yorum: This is the movie Bong has been circling his entire career.
1672. Yorum: This was a perfect film for about the first hour. Amazing characters and gorgeous cinematography. The tone shift was a bit jarring for about twenty minutes, but overall the second half worked. 
1673. Yorum: If you can see the sun reflecting on a blown away hair from a peach, then you know there is a cinematographer who mastered his art (or someone in the CGI-department ;-).
1674. Yorum: Parasite: or how to eat the rich and pay for it
1675. Yorum: ki-jeong and ki-woo in unison: jessica, only child, from illinois, chicago. i'm a classmate of your cousin
1676. Yorum: the most meticulous and layered film i’ve seen in a WHILE. everyone is desperate for their chance to stand in the sunlight.
1678. Yorum: after three watches I’ve decided this is the go-to sleepover film
1679. Yorum: Words can’t even describe how fantastic this movie is. I was laughing during the first third, very stressed and panicky during the second and just completely mesmerized during the finale. Just simply amazing and my favorite movie of the year so far! 
1680. Yorum: best movie of the year
1681. Yorum: Still perfect
1682. Yorum: Bong joon-ho is a genius.
1683. Yorum: pissed out of my ass and shitted out of my cock
1684. Yorum: Still shocked that a movie about class struggle did so well in the US.
1685. Yorum: It's been a while since I've seen this movie, so I decided to rewatch it and give my thoughts. Parasite is simply genius and a masterpiece. Following the lower class Kim family as they infiltrate a wealthy family's household by posing as qualified workers, this film deserves all the hype and praise it has gotten. It honestly touches every genre and was able to do it so elegantly, ranging from moments of pure comedy to times of tragedy. Bong Joon-Ho's direction and storytelling here keeps us engaged from start to finish, providing one of the most original screenplays to hit theaters in years. I believe this solidified him as one of the best directors of our generation, and for good reason. I also thought the actors did a great job displaying their characters motivations throughout the movie. Overall, it's great to see a foreign film make such an impact on the film industry.
1687. Yorum: I first watched Parasite about a year and a half ago, when I knew nothing about films. Even then I remember absolutely loving it and it having a big impact on me, but since then films have become my passion after my friend *cough cough Melody* introduced me to letterboxd. Anyway, I was in the mood to rewatch this today and HOLY FUCK. I truly can't sing its praises highly enough. Parasite doesn't really fit into any one genre, and it's truly unique in terms of its plot and the way it shows class divide. The cinematography and performances are next level, and the pacing is perfect. The birthday party scene is in a league of its own. But I don't need to explain all this, everyone knows.
1688. Yorum: I don’t think this merits being the highest rated film on this app and this isn’t even Bong’s best film, however this is still a damn sharp cinematic exercise. Down the road I see this having the same iconic status as something like Pulp Fiction in the cinematic/pop culture sphere. With that you’re also going to see this deemed “overrated” more and more due to said status. 
1689. Yorum: Crimes against humanity were committed when I thought this movie was anything less then a 4.
1691. Yorum: Spoilers are there
1693. Yorum: Everyone knows what and how good “Parasite” is. Explaining how and why Parasite succeeds so well in what it’s trying to do is a waste of time by now. The technical aspects of the film are as perfect as they can get. Clean camera movement that also changes it’s character in the different locations, clean editing and *wonderful* lighting. The production design is also perfect and is a character itself.
1696. Yorum: This is a social horror movie. It’s funny, honest, human, tragic, and ultimately such a horrific look at systemic oppression and class divisions and the lengths made to either overcome them or keep them in check. It crosses linguistic and geographic borders, and lands with a punch in the gut.
1697. Yorum: Really glad that I was able to see one of the best films of the decade before the decade ends in literally a day.
1698. Yorum: Mr.Kim just wanted people to accept his distinct odor. Basically, what this film boils down to in the end.
1701. Yorum: they said we're gonna scam rich people for all their worth and you know what? mad respect to them for doing that
1702. Yorum: Directed by Bong Joon-ho, the film tells the story of two families, the wealthy Parks and the impoverished Kims, who become intertwined in a complex and suspenseful relationship.
1704. Yorum: Somehow Parasite hits different in black and white. Like I was able to focus even more on its characters, performances, themes and plot this way, without the "distraction" of color. And it actually does look stunning in this version (not that it didn't in color though). However, it's still fully and entirely Parasite, so obviously this rewatch even further established its spot as one of my all time favorites, but it must be said that it's an entirely different experience. Different, but no less fantastic in any way.
1705. Yorum: HOLY SHIT DUDE.. like dont get me wrong its no kung fu panda 2, but still holy shit
1706. Yorum: I kept rewatching this and hoping for different outcomes. this movie is tragically sad
1707. Yorum: This is so metaphorical 
1708. Yorum: Sometimes the peach montage just hits different I don’t know what to tell you.
1709. Yorum: Ohhhhhh Jessica NICE
1710. Yorum: i wonder how Bong Joon Ho feels knowing that he made the greatest film ever
1711. Yorum: Metaphorical
1712. Yorum: One of the best films you will ever see. Dark comedy thriller that rewards multiple viewings. You find something new to appreciate, Whether it’s the remarkable cast or the unforgettable set, Parasite is one of the most unique films of the last 10 years. Despite not being in the language I speak it flows and dances like nothing I’ve ever watched.  it comments on class division in South Korea but everything can apply to any place in the world. Bongs masterpiece
1713. Yorum: RESPECT!
1714. Yorum: Watched on Blu-Ray
1715. Yorum: the heart never lies
1717. Yorum: Third time is the charm.
1719. Yorum: FOUR TIME ACADEMY AWARD WINNER PARASITE
1720. Yorum: BETTER THAN THE LAST BOY SCOUT WE’RE ALL GETTING FUCKING DRUNK TONIGHT #BONGHIVE
1722. Yorum: i am genuinely speechless after finishing. this it’s so carefully and beautifully crafted, it’s one that every single person should see. many thoughts, heads full
1723. Yorum: the fact that joker is nominated alongside this for best picture is the biggest joke of the century.
1724. Yorum: dude, speechless for what this movie is
1725. Yorum: Parasite, a certain ambiguity to the title of this masterpiece, we're unsure which family is the parasitic one. Is the the family of frauds and imposters, the Kim's, or the family that relies on the help to facilitate their roles as parents, the Parks.
1726. Yorum: This is the kind of movie that it's inconceivable to think is playing somewhere around the clock because it seems like the showing you’re in is a singular event that cannot and will not ever be re-created. The film of the year. Maybe not the best, certainly not my favorite, but it so obviously is the film of 2019.
1727. Yorum: I don't know what to write that it hasn't been written already. I expected something, which it happened, but not all of the *other things*. It's a beautiful film with not-so-hidden messages about how we're living these days. The rest, you already know.
1731. Yorum: showed it to my mom and she loved it...“how can a movie be this good? i’m speechless”
1732. Yorum: Every few times a year, there comes a film that you just want to show to the normies in your life and remind them that cinema can pack plenty of punches regardless of language or country. I saw this with some normies and we all swooned. Parasite is Bong hitting the bullseye of tone control. The masters make it look easy. This film is funny, it is thrilling, it is moving, all within the same sequence at times. I can't say enough about the soundtrack as well. The music turns it into a ballet. Bong should get nominated, the film should get nominated, and I would nominate Song Kang-ho too if I had any say.
1734. Yorum: Non est terminus which means there is no limit to perfection! 
1737. Yorum: Going into Parasite, I had tried to remain as blind as possible. I only knew the basic synopsis. I hadn’t read reviews. I hadn’t watched trailers, and when the preview played before First Love, I shut my eyes. However, I did hear the music during that preview, as it shifted from upbeat and whimsical to ominous to thrilling.
1738. Yorum: Initial Twitter thoughts: 
1739. Yorum: There's nothing I can possibly say right now that hasn't been said about this, but Bong Joon-ho's Parasite is the one of the most exciting, riveting films of the year. There's an undeniable, striking beauty in its refusal to be confined to just one single genre. The most subdued, but also one of the most thought-provoking plays on expectations and morality in quite a while.
1740. Yorum: A very wild and broad story that takes on the form of many times and genres. Parasite has a sense of heightened reality to it, the people and events don't quite seem to be registering as real, but the themes and anger they feel are certainly truthful.
1741. Yorum: bruh bruh there’s some kind of genius juice that Bong Joon Ho is drinking that we’re all oblivious to.
1743. Yorum: WATCHLIST. NOW. THIS IS GOING ON EVERYONES WATCHLIST IDC
1744. Yorum: Recommended By: Jayden boxd.it/61lIF
1745. Yorum: Yeah Parasite is still one of the greatest films ever made. Is it even worth writing about? 🤔 Eh...
1747. Yorum: i love the fact we just collectively agree that this movie doesn't deserve anything below 5 stars
1749. Yorum: After the big Best Picture win that Parasite rightfully earned about a week ago, it felt right to revisit it and rightfully add it to my home collection as soon as possible, AKA whenever the hell Jeff Bezos decides to deliver it to my house. While I jumped the gun on doing so, as the Criterion Collection announced it would be added to their prestigious library exactly one day after I ordered my copy (Hmmm, not sure how I'm gonna recoup that $20 back. Ah well), it didn't feel right having to wait longer than necessary in revisiting what may very well be Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece and finally admit that even with the uncomfortably real strengths of Marriage Story, this was the one that deserved it most of all as genuinely, 100%, the best film of the entire year (I mean, between the two it was neck-and-neck and either one would've pleased me, sooo)
1750. Yorum: "Damn you, Parasite," I feel like grumbling. "Why did you have to go and win all those Oscars? Thanks to you, we no longer have the right to complain about the Academy." But I assume this is just what happens when a film comes out that is so good it has the power to bring decades-old reservations crashing down in ruin, possibly never to be rebuilt. Who can say? It's never happened before.
1751. Yorum: (B&W Edition) 
1753. Yorum: THE HYPE IS REAL! What a film. Just when I thought it couldn’t get weird, IT DID THAT. So glad I saw this in theaters. Truly an experience.
1754. Yorum: Hits from da Bong!
1756. Yorum: Wow, I really don't know how best to talk about Parasite so here some words that might help - funny, stressful, heartbreaking, razor sharp, brilliant. Bong Joon-Ho's direction is impeccable and the performances spot on. I'm glad I went in cold and allowed the film to unravel around me, not once did it lose my attention. It spins a masterful web that encases you in its absurdity, and when things get really bleak, you're too transfixed to break free, nor would you want to. There's one scene in the film where our leads rapidly run down many flights of steps and that whole sequence is forever etched in my mind. It is so simple but so effective at what it conveys, and it really broke my heart. It's been hours since I saw Parasite and I can't shake the awe it left me in. A truly incredible piece of cinema, deeply poignant and intoxicating, Parasite is a masterpiece.
1757. Yorum: Sometimes my brain itches and I wonder if it’s a brain worm like RFK. Do you think that the worm in RFK’s brain was gonna eventually get the rest of the worms in RFK’s brain fired so that he could replace them with his worm family members and help get them out of poverty, only to realize that there was a worm in the basement of RFK’s brain that had been sending out Morse codes through RFK’s blinking patterns but then the worms fought and they all died and RFK became secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services? I think so.
1758. Yorum: “If I had all this I would be kinder.”
1759. Yorum: It was a great experience both in terms of the script and the depth of character.The way the movie portrayed the social class divisions was very impressive and every scene was like a work of art. I really liked it and I recommend it.
1761. Yorum: this makes me want to go back and give all the other movies i’ve rated 5 stars a 4.5 because WOW
1762. Yorum: what the hell
1763. Yorum: Masterfully constructed by Bong Joon-Ho, "Parasite" finds the director orchestrating a class allegory under the guise of both thriller and dark comedy. Its drama steeped in varying flavors of theme and genre, the narrative sees its central family, in need of employment, falling in with a wealthier clan as story threads unravel engagingly. That story is layered, its characters worthy of focus, and the cinema on display is vibrant: each shot composed with visual and narrative energy, and each edit quietly propulsive. The experience is enveloping, rich, and thought-provoking.
1765. Yorum: Ki-taek: They are rich but still nice.
1766. Yorum: Recommended by @IanChoi
1770. Yorum: it was okay, i guess...🤷‍♂️
1771. Yorum: WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK THIS IS A MASTERPIECE
1772. Yorum: why hasn’t there been a good movie since 2019 (even more hauntingly beautiful the second time around)
1773. Yorum: It’s not everyday you encounter a masterpiece. Today, I had the privilege of witnessing one. 
1774. Yorum: I just wanted to watch this movie because of that toilet
1775. Yorum: holy fucking shit.
1776. Yorum: Certified Venom approved
1777. Yorum: One of my favorite movie experiences ever. Bong Joon ho, you're the man!
1778. Yorum: Parasite..... The most popular film on letterboxd and what can I say, it's still one of the best movies I have ever seen.
1779. Yorum: Showing this to new people is a 5 star experience itself
1780. Yorum: i could literally rewatch this every day for the rest of my life and not get sick of it
1782. Yorum: watching this in black and white was an experience! thank u amazon prime <3
1784. Yorum: yes it’s taken me over a year to watch parasite. I’m sorry I’m just very countersuggestible by nature so often when I hear a film is very well received I might deliberately stay away from it as to not get disappointed when it turns out to not be as great as everyone has made it seem. that did not happen here. this is the best rated film on letterboxd and it deserves it. if you haven’t rated this five stars you are a statistical anomaly, a bootlicker or racist (or all three) and honestly idk whether we watched the same film because how anyone couldn’t rate that with full marks is beyond me. even if you ignore the undertones it’s still staggering and I love and appreciate Bong Joon Ho a great deal
1785. Yorum: “I am deadly serious” is the new “deadass” 
1786. Yorum: I knew I missed going to the theater, but after seeing Inception and this within a few days of each other on the big screen, I seriously don't know how I survived in my house for so long watching movies. (FYI there's only 4 cases in the province)
1787. Yorum: If I was there none of this would have happened
1788. Yorum: Holy hell what a ride of a film!
1789. Yorum: The next Academy Awards show would be on April 25, 2021 meaning Parasite would be the longest running best picture oscar winner to date.......Bonghive nation we have truly WON 😌
1790. Yorum: It turns out the real parasites were the ignorant rich pricks we met along the way. :) 
1791. Yorum: A masterpiece. Korean cinema has been in its golden age since 2002, and this movie along with Handmaiden, and Oldboy will be remembered as the Citizen Kanes, The Goodfellas, and The Godfather’s of Korean cinema. I already watch some Korean movies but I really need to watch more, because modern Korean movies for me just have something more special, and engaging than modern American movies. Maybe the subtitles make them more engaging, maybe the storytelling is new and exiting. Whatever the reason everyone should watch Parasite and other Korean movies.
1792. Yorum: IMAX this time...
1793. Yorum: The student cinema that I oversee at the UofL campus was really fortunate to be able to get this movie so soon after the oscars. Our distributor said it was a close call to not having the license available until later due to the wider theatrical re-releases and I wasn’t planning on seeing it again last night but I heard that the turnout was really solid. I wanted to be there for that experience since our theater rarely pulls more than twenty people per showing. 
1795. Yorum: Well that was fun! 
1798. Yorum: I didn’t rewatch it.
1800. Yorum: In Bong Joon Ho's Parasite, We begin with the struggling lower class Ki-taek and The higher class Park Family as they cross paths with each other and one wanting what the other has in their given class. Now Bong touches on other worldly problems that interupt both families in opposite ways. In a metaphor sense we see it unfold then some else happens and makes the struggle much harder. The performances are solid along with the directing. I highly recommend that you watch it!!
1801. Yorum: If you love well written thrillers, this is 100% for you. This movie is so intense from start to finish. I also recommend keeping an eye out for the symbolism and themes present throughout the movie.
1802. Yorum: A masterful work about the ambiguity of capitalism issues that gives this so much rewatch value. The detail in this movie is insane in the best way(take notes Todd Phillips), Go read Jackson Hendrix’s review on letterbox cause it rules. I love the ending to this movie and the rich mom has my heart 💚
1803. Yorum: Wow. What a movie.
1804. Yorum: Upon further rewatch:
1806. Yorum: i haven't walked away from a film feeling more impacted i think in my entire life. i'm so relieved i went into this blind.
1808. Yorum: ''Slashing through the exam. Dominating it! That's all I care about. What you need is vigor. Vigor.''
1809. Yorum: A heist,comedy,thriller,horror film which blends them all perfectly in a 2 hrs jaw dropping ride.
1811. Yorum: “The Gang Gets Trapped”
1812. Yorum: You have to surrender to Parasite’s achievement. I literally gaped in awe at the reveal of one major twist because Bong Joon-Ho’s masterpiece elicits such visceral reactions as that. Along with gaping, there was plenty of guffawing, gasping, and gurgling blood (in the movie, of course, not my own). 
1813. Yorum: “Why do you keep clinging to that stone?”
1814. Yorum: That's it?
1815. Yorum: Riveting, one of the best films of the year.
1816. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho said I respect people who make bad movies but that ain’t me
1817. Yorum: Undoubtedly one of the most flawless movies I've seen this year, at home or in theaters.
1818. Yorum: Just saw this at the Egyptian with a appearance and Q&A from director Bong Joon-Ho. Will likely be my favorite of 2019, I cant imagine what would take its place.
1821. Yorum: The proletariat revolts, social class struggle through Joon Ho Bong's eyes.
1823. Yorum: Parasite is perfectly written, directed, and played. Delivering a strong social commentary that can be interpreted at a universal level, Bong Joon-ho's voice and rage on how much the power of money has divided us fills every frame of this incredible movie, loud and clear. Bong Joon-ho said the most suitable term to describe 'Parasite' is a tragicomedy and I completely agree with it. It provides you with a variant of gallows humor you can laugh at while feeling guilty as well. A well deserved Palme d'Or! I was quite blown away. Fucking amazing. I think we'll hear about this movie for years to come, in the most positive way possible.
1824. Yorum: SUCH A TIGHT SCREENPLAY, every event feels like a direct response to the previous like a snowball rolling down a snowy hill. All in service of a rich narrative disecting social class and the hatred fueled in that. Deserving of every bit of praise it’s received and more.
1825. Yorum: This film is just wow…it’s so hard to write about it as there is so much to talk about.
1827. Yorum: “once you overcome the one inch tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films.“ 🍑⋆⭒˚.⋆💸𖦹°༘⋆
1828. Yorum: Don’t ask why it took me so long to get around to watching this, but I’m glad I finally did. This is a movie that clearly has a lot of layers and themes to it, some of which are more forthright than others, but what’s most obvious is how expertly Bong Joon-ho constructs each aspect of it. In my opinion, my initial thoughts on this are that it’s a perfect movie; from the sharp writing to the stellar editing to the faultless performances to the cunning social commentary and so on, this is an example of a master at work.
1829. Yorum: I can confirm this is just as good as the 3x I watched it in 2020 🫡
1831. Yorum: Parasite is sophisticated, excellent, and honestly, one of most well-crafted pieces of cinema I have ever seen. 
1832. Yorum: "They're rich...but still nice."
1834. Yorum: I didn’t think anything would usurp Midsommar as my #1 movie of 2019 but parasite did it with ease. I was really looking forward to this film and exceeded all my expectations. The cinematography is gorgeous, the sound design is fantastic, the acting is really good. All the problems I have with it are all nitpicks really. The movie is actually really humorous too which I wasn’t expecting. There’s so much metaphorical stuff happening and an interesting twist that I can’t wait to rewatch the movie with new eyes. I can’t recommend this movie enough.
1836. Yorum: “Do I fit in here?”
1837. Yorum: imagine living in a situation where the toilet sits higher than you
1838. Yorum: there’s just something about a thunderstorm that makes everything cinematic. could make eating a can of baked beans seem like some kind of intense anti-hero subplot
1839. Yorum: “Once you overcome the 1-inch-tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films” -Bong Joon Ho
1841. Yorum: I have nothing to add aside from infinite enthusiasm because everyone has seen this before me and everyone has laid out my impressions more eloquently than I’m able. That said, 5 IMMEDIATE stars for ANY reason you can think of. 
1842. Yorum: i could throw a better birthday party than that
1843. Yorum: There wasn't a single Parasite. How fucking hard is it for a movie to be a medical drama about King Richard III being infected by a lethal parasite and how it affected his battle of Bosworth Field.
1844. Yorum: Nothing much to add just amazing again
1845. Yorum: I WATCHED THIS IN APRIL 2021 AND I’M REVIEWING IT NOW
1847. Yorum: there's a reason why this is constantly listed on letterboxd's 'popular this week', absolutely mesmerizing.
1848. Yorum: yesterday was my one year anniversary of watching this for the first time so in honor of that i decided to do a rewatch. 
1849. Yorum: First time watching this one since I saw it in theaters. Hands down, Parasite has one of the most original scripts ever put to film with brilliant direction from Bong Joon Ho. Song Kang Ho was completely overlooked by the Academy as he’s spectacular as the Dad. A few minor gripes (specifically with the drawn out ending) keep this film from being a masterpiece in my eyes, but I still love it. Even though it wasn’t my personal pick... it’s a well deserved Best Picture winner and one of my top 10 films from last year.
1851. Yorum: the movie version of “that escalated quickly”
1852. Yorum: Ki-jung sat on the exploding toilet smoking a cig is a fat mood
1853. Yorum: what a masterpiece...i’m just so glad this won best picture it really deserved it
1854. Yorum: the cinema was so packed that my girlfriend and I had to sit on the floor and I couldn't be happier about it
1856. Yorum: "It's so metaphorical!"
1857. Yorum: Normally I don't go with the grain, but Parasite deserves to be among the best movies of all time.
1858. Yorum: metaphorical
1860. Yorum: As I was watching Bong Joon-Ho's latest film I had the sense that I was watching an absolute classic unfold in front of my very eyes. Every scene, character moment, plot escalation, musical cue & shot just feels 'special', like it's a story told from an absolute master.
1861. Yorum: literally my 10th time logging this film so you already know how i feel about it
1862. Yorum: I went back to the Sidewalk in Birmingham. This time, to see Parasite before it’s replaced by Honey Boy, and Marriage Story. After not seeing it for a month, it still proves to be just another great film from this year! Bong Joon Ho has outdone himself for making this film! When the Golden Globe nominations come out next Monday, and the Oscar nominations come out next month, I hope to see Parasite get its well deserved nominations, and win its deserved awards.
1863. Yorum: this is IT! this is CINEMA! i am DELIGHTED!!
1865. Yorum: Parasite continues Bong Joon-Ho's discussion of class consciousness with his signature blend of dark humour, madcap madness, and heart. It is a beautiful film to look at, the performances are all around great, and the soundtrack is a miracle of sorts (as it manages to not only match the ever shifting tone of the script but also to completely bring the audience along and allow them to fully inhabit the wide range of emotional states). Parasite is the full cinematic experience - it will make you laugh, disturb you, and make you think about life as only the most effective satire can. Even though you have probably heard a lot of hyperbolic things by this point, do not be daunted, as Parasite will not disappoint.
1866. Yorum: “it’s free real estate”: the movie
1867. Yorum: Parasite is a crowd-pleaser the same way a roman gladiator match is, but with more doors flying open with new twists than any colosseum could. Like a gladiator fight, it’s morally ambiguous and evocative of political and societal class issues. Even realizing this context, you will still find yourself rooting for things you don’t expect too or want to.
1868. Yorum: the house itself deserves an oscar
1869. Yorum: watching this film in theaters is such a monumental experience. it’s even better the 2nd time. even more thrilling. even more cultural impactful. a groundbreaking masterpiece.
1870. Yorum: i don’t even know where to start or what to say. a masterpiece. yes, what i witnessed wasn’t like any film i’ve seen before. i’m still trying to process what happened and i don’t know if i’ll be the same person after this. all i have to say is... so long.
1871. Yorum: I don’t want to spoil anything but I’ll say this:
1875. Yorum: What a movie!!!! This was definitely one of the most entertaining and profound movies I’ve seen all year. It never wastes a moment, it never stops moving and it’s always unexpected. One moment you can be laughing your ass off and the next you can be clenching your fists because the movie is giving you a panic attack. I can’t believe that a movie I was already so hyped for ended up being better than I was anticipating. You don’t get that anymore. Don’t look anything up and believe the hype, it’s THAT good! 
1876. Yorum: things i will never be able to look at the same way:
1877. Yorum: If you look through a microscope of every corner of people’s lives, you look at the most universal themes of the world with the smallest lens. The continuing Polarization and inequality of our society is as a sad comedy. The gap between rich and poor can be applied to any country across the world in our age. There are people who hope to live with others in a co-existent or symbiotic relationship, but that doesn’t work out, so they are pushed into a Parasitic relationship. Even if you don’t have a villain, bad things can happen. That’s why it’s an unpredictable tragicomedy.
1878. Yorum: Cinema was made for this kind of movies.
1879. Yorum: totally ludicrous rollercoaster - i thought i had pegged what this movie was about like five times, and each time it took a hard right turn. a truly dark and weird movie about wannabe social climbers shouldn't be this briskly entertaining
1881. Yorum: the best movie of the year so far. this will be very hard to top. i dont really have anything to say about it that hasnt already been said but i implore all of you who havent seen this yet to see it as soon as you can... and go in blind. its a ride.
1882. Yorum: Brings a whole new meaning to the phrase "party rock is in the house tonight."
1883. Yorum: Funny. Scary. Riveting. Timeless. Epic. Perfection.
1884. Yorum: Black and white version because I love cinema but on my phone because I want to disappoint David Lynch like I disappoint my own parents 🤍
1886. Yorum: “She always ate for two.”
1888. Yorum: Rewatched
1889. Yorum: that moment where the audience go from laughing when moon-gwang is kicked down the stairs to the sudden gasp when she smacks her head off the wall.... literally inject it into my bloodstream, it’s like a drug to me.
1890. Yorum: My mum: i’d never watch a movie with subtitles
1891. Yorum: instant death to anyone laughing when the parks are talking about how much mr kim smells while he’s lying under the table... it’s heartbreaking, not hilarious!
1892. Yorum: WHY I DON’T LOVE PARASITE
1893. Yorum: A family is so tired of being poor that they are willin to screw over anyone to get good paying jobs inside the home of a rich family. After a big storm causes an unpredictable change of events, the past ends up knocking on the door of the present. Secrets become harder to conceal and both families must face karma.
1894. Yorum: Saw this at a preview screening ahead of its stupidly late UK release date and wow, the hype was very much real for this film and then some.
1895. Yorum: I know I previously said that Irishman should win Best Picture, but this movie has changed my opinion on that matter. I don’t care if it isn’t in English.
1896. Yorum: "Aren't we fortunate to be worrying about things like this?"
1897. Yorum: “Class conflict” feels like too simple of a phrase to use after watching Parasite, which is currently my second favorite film of the year. The film feels like something more than that. Bong Joon-Ho’s latest feature, which touches on the inequities that exist across modern-day Korea, is a film that’s as subtle as a series of dits and dahs at one moment only to become as savage as a knife to the heart moments later. And it deserves all the great press it’s getting, as this is what cinema is all about. The film is ambitious, thought-provoking and captivating from start to finish. 
1900. Yorum: Parasite lives up to the hype. Bong's latest film is nearly impossible to describe, shifting recognizable genres with glee, but never becoming boring or too obvious. The ensemble and direction are stellar, and all around, it's simply remarkable. This is going to be a much shorter review than usual because Parasite is still in limited release, and, just like everyone say, it should be watched with as little knowledge as possible. I eagerly anticipate rewatching it in a few weeks and having more to say on it, but for now, this is truly impressive in so many ways.
1901. Yorum: Parasite is Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece. It's a monumental achievement of film that's far and away my new favorite film of the year, and I really don't see it being topped quite honestly.
1902. Yorum: Parasite or: how to ruin a good movie with your "too much" tendency, accumulated metaphors and a bad ending.
1903. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's masterfully crafted Palme d'Or winning, Parasite, is a remarkable depiction on class disparity by blatantly emphasizing parasitism as a social phenomenon. While the title itself is a dehumanizing metaphor, the film as a whole is far from it. It's unimaginably humane in its own way, thanks to the Korean auteur's eccentric perspective and playful approach. It is fresh, convincing, and to say the least, enthralling. And right on top of it, Parasite is perfected by Bong's effective trope subversion, making it worthy of all recognition, hype, and praise it got. An instant classic and without hesitation, the best movie of 2019 (at least so far, it will surely be a hard one to top).
1905. Yorum: i missed the point of the movie because i wanna be yeon-gyo so bad when i grow up. rich housewife who’s not actually a housewife calling up all my friends to get “drunk in the daytime” for my sons birthday. she’s an icon
1906. Yorum: First time watching this in Black and White, loved it a lot because it felt like i was watching it again for the first time but definitely doesn't feel like it was made to be in b&w. The shot of Guen-Sae’s eyes in the flashback was truly haunting though
1908. Yorum: ate a peach while watching this #cinematicexperience
1912. Yorum: i rewatched this in b&w alternative and that face peeking out of the basement became even scarier than it actually was
1913. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho take a bow. That was spectacular! The most random plot twist I never saw coming changed the entire dynamic of this movie, that I was already thoroughly enjoying. 
1914. Yorum: Wow. I mean just wow. That was a cinematic masterpiece. That was literally perfect. How tf- this was insane I'm lost for words. A well crafted fuckin masterpiece of a movie. I loved every second of this holy shit. I really didn't expect things to go down like that. One of the best movies I've ever witnessed
1915. Yorum: It’s just so good
1918. Yorum: Sight & Sound top 100
1919. Yorum: it still holds up. such a mix of the best parts of movies — humor and horror and heist, all rolled up into class commentary and beautiful cinematography. what’s more fun: the peach plan or the descent into the basement for the first first time?
1920. Yorum: I do like this film. I don’t have the complete adoration for it as many others do. I don’t find it to be perfect, or do anything super original, but I can’t argue it’s an effective popcorn flick while also being a great satire on an admittedly tired topic (Hierarchy/Rich Vs Poor).
1921. Yorum: I'm very obsessed with Ki-Jung's beauty 😍 also her acting looks so good
1922. Yorum: better late than never
1923. Yorum: "With no plan, nothing will go wrong"
1925. Yorum: “you can’t go wrong with no plans.”
1926. Yorum: Watch it with your Family
1927. Yorum: i can see why this is the highest rated movie on letterboxd goddamn, it's so good at building suspense.
1928. Yorum: 🎃 Spook-tober Fest - Night 4 🎃
1929. Yorum: park so-dam, the original girlboss.
1930. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho has crafted on of the most engrossing and intriguing international films of the past 20 years. Parasite portrays several powerful themes like classism and prejudice with a story that keeps you thoroughly engaged, surprised and shocked. The film contains one of the most surprising twists that audiences have ever seen as it shows the repercussions of the nefarious actions a poor family makes in order to find success and take advantage of those who are better of financially. After deservedly winning the Academy Award for Best Picture, this film will go down as one of the best of the century. 
1931. Yorum: Swipe all the awards off the table and watch Parasite on its own terms, ignorant of the plaudits and the same end result is achieved. You really would struggle to see a better film inside the year this was released.
1932. Yorum: As an Asian person, I can confirm that we all have those, um, items in the basement.
1933. Yorum: Every time I watch this I pick up on something new. Bong Joon-ho really saved the film industry huh.
1934. Yorum: This is a reality check movie.
1938. Yorum: Just reminding everyone that this is a 5 without question. All of these lame-asses crying over a foreign movie winning at the oscars are pathetic WORMS. 
1939. Yorum: My third time around the house, celebrating such a momentous day in film history. To all the people finally deciding to give this a shot in wake of the Oscars: RESPECT!
1940. Yorum: we did it!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! congratulations everyone
1942. Yorum: Third time and it felt like the first time I watched it, even when I knew what was coming I was on the edge.
1943. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's Korean dark comedy is fiendishly funny right from the outset, starting out with a poor family managing to con their way into the lives of a wealthy family and their home, setting the stage for a pin-sharp satire of class and privilege; while much of it is directly pointed at the massive inequality and social divides in Korean society, those ideas are so universal that they translate very well. The direction is intelligent and intricately precise, especially the way it moves around the home that makes up the majority of the running time and how the characters sneak through it, and carefully balancing an evolving tone with characters who are selfish and opportunistic, even if they are rich enough to be outwardly 'nice'. If it was simply an amusing-but-sinister farce, this would still be one of my favourite films of this year, but the way the story progresses adds a whole other dimension to the premise, becoming something altogether unexpected. That is what gives the movie a real punch to it that is very much in keeping Joon-ho's previous work like The Host, especially in a show-stopping conclusion that simply left me stunned. Parasite is a movie that is best to go into knowing as little about it as possible and just become completely immersed in an entertaining and daring piece of work. I was totally absorbed from start-to-finish, and I think this may well be my favourite film of 2019, it is an absolute treat.
1944. Yorum: robbing the next rich family that i see
1945. Yorum: I almost have no words. You take a film, where your preconception of how events will turn out in the beginning, are completely spun on their head by the end. Masterful. It's a blending of genres, that doesn't feel tacked on, cheap, played out, or ignorant. A film that must be seen to be believed. Bong Joon-ho, I sincerely thank you. For restoring my faith in film-making. For breaking boundaries.
1946. Yorum: Took my friend and grandma to see Parasite. Sold out showing middle of the day. GREAT AUDIENCE. Plus surrounded by people I care about made it even better. Seeing, hearing and Turning towards them to see their reactions were the best. Planning on taking them to 1917 next.
1947. Yorum: I’m starting the year strong by watching this masterpiece... film made me feel every single emotion imaginable. an absolute rollercoaster, worth the hype alls I’m saying
1948. Yorum: The reveal that the stair lights are not automatic is one of the best movie moments of 2019.
1951. Yorum: jaw: on the floor
1952. Yorum: Wow. Okay, this definitely lived up to the hype.
1953. Yorum: I hesitate to use the m-word that so many have flung at PARASITE, but I don't blame them. It is utterly wild. Absolutely bonkers narratively. It’s a film that's equal parts hilarious, tense, horrific, and ultimately tragic. How Bong Joon-ho seamlessly, and slyly, transitions between those tones is incredibly astonishing. Dramatically it's very riveting, but as a heartbreaking (ahem) metaphorical look at class and the inevitable truth of always being trapped, it's profoundly moving.
1954. Yorum: Engaging; funny; important; poignant; provocative; quirky; smart; suspenseful; timely; unpredictable; unsentimental; well-acted; well-crafted; well-paced.
1957. Yorum: I don't have much to say. Flawless film, one of the greatest I've seen. It's really true that you should know nothing before seeing it, I was constantly surprised.
1958. Yorum: “Respect!”
1960. Yorum: Parasite is an absolute masterclass in storytelling 
1961. Yorum: I was on my way to The Exorcist at Beyond Fest when I heard Friedkin dropped out of the Q&A and my friends would no longer be going but then the Arclight tweeted about a contest to win tickets to the premiere of Parasite and an hour later and I won and now I’m sitting next to Flying Lotus in the front row at the premiere of Parasite. You see how it all evens out for me?
1962. Yorum: Would make for a great double feature with Ready Or Not, which could be titled “Do Rich People Deserve Rights?”
1964. Yorum: I hate people who yell about spoilers but: spoil this movie and GO TO JAIL
1965. Yorum: bong joon-ho has made a film unlike anything i've ever seen before, his other movies have great craft and are really enjoyable (i've only seen his english films so correct me if i'm wrong) but this is just transendant filmmaking. i've never seen a film be so many things and dip into a ton of genres such comedy, drama and thriller yet be undefinable as a whole, unlike anything i've previously seen from bong joon-ho, i have no precise idea what he was trying to communicate here and i feel satisfied with that because this is one wild ride which mainly deals in the gap between economic classes and that's as far as i understand about and i look forward to finding out what it's really about but as a whole parasite is a rollercoaster which when it starts descends and speeding downards, it has no sight of stopping until the end of it's runtime. this is one of those films my words are basically null and it has to be experienced, whether that's on a leak or in your local theatre, i don't think you disappointed or at least bored.
1966. Yorum: Move over Booksmart this is 100% the funniest film of the year 
1967. Yorum: There’s a reason that this won best picture. Bong Joon-ho’s ability to so seamlessly combine genres and subvert expectations is amazing.
1968. Yorum: Second time watching this in one year for a film class. 
1969. Yorum: If I had all this I would be kinder.
1971. Yorum: There’s this scene where Ki-Woo first goes to the Park’s house for his interview, and the housekeeper goes to wake up Yeon-kyo, the mother, who’s fallen asleep outside at a table. The housekeeper (a lower class worker) walks up to the mother (of higher class status). They are clearly divided by the straight line going down the glass panel in which the point-of-view is behind. She calls, but the mother still won’t wake up. After yelling in attempt to wake her up, the housekeeper stretches her arms out past the deliberate line separating them and claps her hands - only now does the mother wake up. A lower class passing the divide and intruding into the higher class. 
1972. Yorum: It didn't take much time before I knew it. From the start Parasite is memorable. I knew this would become one of my favorite films very early into the film. And I was right. It's one of my favorite films now. I'm a huge fan of Korean cinema, and I'm glad it finally got the recognition it deserved. And Parasite is not at all a bad way to start with if your not familiar with Korean filmmaking. Everything what makes Korean cinema so great is present. But it's not as extreme, which makes Parasite more accessible for a wider audience. Only in it's climax you'll get a glimpse of the true madness that pretty much defines the Korean thriller. But even then, the subtlety in storytelling still remains.
1974. Yorum: I'm speechless. Absolutely incredible.
1978. Yorum: Theo and Hay's Review
1979. Yorum: korean cinema is LITERALLY INSANE in the best way possible
1980. Yorum: It’s incredibly rare for this to happen but I love the feeling of watching a film & being completely wrapped up in the hands of a master filmmaker. There are only a few directors I can count on one hand who could do this - Nolan, Spielberg, Kobayashi, Tarantino, Park Chan Wook etc.
1981. Yorum: I finally watched this for the first time way too many years too late. A beautiful movie, both visually and story-wise. It was a fun take on the usual “eat the rich” stories I feel we get a lot of these days. The tension and character building is great, supporting by performances that enchance it even more. Very deserving of the success and critical acclaim it receives!
1982. Yorum: I saw this in the theaters when it came out. I had to go back the very next day. I was in amazement. I've seen it a handful of times since then and I'm still shocked and awed by the 2nd half of the film every time. It's like trying to solve a rubix cube, so many turns and flips and it keeps dragging you deeper into itself. I to that house I swear that's alive
1984. Yorum: "jessica, only child, illinois, chicago. classmate kim jin-mo, he's your cousin."
1985. Yorum: An unforgiving movie which I won’t get out of my mind.
1986. Yorum: wtf i was not ready for the cake stair scene i was watching in the dark 😭
1990. Yorum: my sims when they visit the spencer-kim-lewis household
1991. Yorum: so much foreshadowing they should call it fiveshadowing, (slaps knee and chuckles to himself).
1992. Yorum: Absolute fucking masterpiece. One of the best things i’ve ever seen and idk why it took me so long to watch.
1995. Yorum: i know im like late late excuse my stupidity for not watching this sooner, amazing… there are no words literally.
1996. Yorum: I know I’m a couple of years late but oH MY GOD
1997. Yorum: i will never get over this film
1998. Yorum: Wow!!! Finally got around to watching this one and it was worth the wait.
1999. Yorum: Easily one of my favourite movies ever! Everything in this movie is fantastic. Even after multiple rewatches the jokes still land and the suspense sequences are still intense. The cinematography is stunning and every actor did a brilliant job. If you haven’t seen this film, I cannot recommend it enough.
2000. Yorum: A f***ing MASTERPIECE!
2001. Yorum: I'm still thinking of this film days later. Shot exceptionally well, the acting was brilliant and the ending left me feeling pretty empty. Parasite is an absolute winner.
2004. Yorum: rewatching this knowing that the 2021 oscars being delayed means parasite will be the longest running best picture winner🥰🥰🥰🥰🥰
2005. Yorum: Ben Shapiro called this overrated.
2007. Yorum: Phenomenal movie! Bravo! This is so cleverly written with an amazing cast that you have no other choice but to be mesmerized. I just couldn't get enough of fantastic flick. Definitely a must watch!
2008. Yorum: Gisaengchung/PARASITE (2019) South Korea colour 130m.
2009. Yorum: Masterpiece from start to finish.
2010. Yorum: I finally got around to "Parasite", one of the most remarked-upon films from last year (and of course the Oscar winner). "Parasite" is indeed masterful in its ability to blend sharp criticism of class disparities and conflicts, humorous moments and characters, and the horror of things gone wrong. I also liked its two halves - the first where the poor family subtly "invades" the wealthy family, and the second where everything starts to fall apart. The same for the competition between the two families of servants. Creative, incisive and beautifully directed, edited and photographed.
2011. Yorum: the first time i saw this i really underrated how much it looks and feels like a movie, compared to like 90% of shit i watched in 2019
2012. Yorum: Ki-taek: They are rich but still nice. 
2013. Yorum: I had really high expectations for this cause of all the rave reviews this has been getting but holy fucking shit I'm blown away
2014. Yorum: this film is just mf sexy u know? could watch it forever and ever
2016. Yorum: wow..... this is so metaphorical....
2017. Yorum: That’s history right there, you understand?
2018. Yorum: This may be my most anticipated movie of all time, and that is always a scary feeling. It is one of the most hyped movies basically ever, and my expectations were so high, but Parasite somehow managed to exceed them. 
2019. Yorum: so in conclusion, EAT THE RICH
2020. Yorum: ‘Once you overcome the one inch tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to many more amazing films’ - Bong Joon-Ho
2022. Yorum: It just keeps getting better every time i watch it.
2023. Yorum: film of the decade, probably. asian cinema stays winning!
2024. Yorum: One of the most finely crafted films I’ve ever seen. I can’t even put into words how good this was. Got me blushing and shit
2025. Yorum: This should do to movies about modern class & capitalism what Goodfellas did to gangster movies. That is, make everyone say after seeing a movie on the same subject, “it’s no Parasite.”
2027. Yorum: Ohhh, so THAT'S why I keep seeing this in the Popular with Friends section!
2030. Yorum: So I watched this last night and couldn’t properly get my thoughts in order until this morning to write a semi-coherent review explaining the greatness of what I had witnessed.
2032. Yorum: At one point during the movie’s anodyne-by-design first 30/45 minutes the guy sitting next to me exclaimed out loud “yo this shit is fucked up!”.
2033. Yorum: Still the best film of the last years.
2034. Yorum: I watched it without knowing anything about it except it's a comedy/thriller/drama and, of course, that didn't even got close to prepare me for what this movie is actually about. I loved every second of it and all the emotions it got me through.
2035. Yorum: foreign films continuously raising the bar for cinema
2036. Yorum: “... that was so metaphorical...” 
2038. Yorum: I think I felt every emotion I could have possibly felt during this movie
2039. Yorum: Parasite can be called a decent film, though I expected much more from Memories of Murder's director. I think in Parasite there are two different tone and rhythm. First half which is the 'set up' scenes, the black comedy and everything seems about right, the problem of Parasite starts when they come to the victims' house to spend the night, from now on everything is a mess! The film losts its way and ends badly. I still think his Memories of Murder is his best work till today and I think it's also his only good feature.
2040. Yorum: SHE MAY LOOK LIKE A SHEEP, BUT INSIDE, SHE'S A FOX.
2042. Yorum: IM SPEECHLESS....THAT [SPEECH]
2044. Yorum: good lord this is spellbindingly wild. and as much as it is also grippingly heart-tugging and inciting, there is just not one label to categorise Bong Joon-Ho’s Parasite. as it squirms and bites with its social commentary in a dog-eat-dog twist and turn, its weight is heavy enough not to burden yet it courses throughout to be felt. the absurd humour on the surface hides a deeper and bigger problem rooting from the imbalance of social classes / poverty that this alters its face to the horror of impetuous rebellion and contemptuous dreams. the frequent drizzle hints on the moral decline sprawled on the backseat. Parasite then drives to places in familiar highways until it becomes a rough road towards a cliff. it takes you there and there is so much to take in. so do you jump or get kicked?
2045. Yorum: Was not expecting the humour in this... those peach scenes are on another level. Brilliant !!
2046. Yorum: Believe the hype!!!
2048. Yorum: The greatest movie ever made. (UPDATE, behind ROTK)
2049. Yorum: Films Watched in 2022 - Film 540
2050. Yorum: Upon a THIRD viewing, I’m truly astonished as to how I have loved it even more and more upon each watch.
2051. Yorum: Just got out of the theatre and holy shit, it’s even better the second time. It’s also mY MOM’S NEW FAVOURITE BEST PICTURE NOMINEE!!! BONGHIVE RISE UP!!!
2052. Yorum: This is the fourth of Bong Joon Ho's films that I have seen. It's probably not my favorite of his (that remains "Snowpiercer") but it has the same tonal shifts and wickedly satirical bent as his other work. This one is more grounded than some of the others, however, focusing mostly on a single unemployed family and the wealthy family that they infiltrate to better themselves. It also handles those tonal shifts more deftly and precisely than something like "Okja", for instance.
2053. Yorum: rich people are a DISEASE and we need to ERADICATE EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THEM!!!!
2055. Yorum: “Ki-woo, you know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. No plan.“
2056. Yorum: I’m still amazed this film exists... like, how can I move on in life after I’ve seen this. This is the pinnacle of film.
2057. Yorum: Entertaining. But... does an artist make movies in which every single character is venal and self-involved? If you're making a movie about class inequality (which the movie reminds us explicitly on more than one occasion that we should read metaphorically), do you portray the exploited working class as more physically brutal and murderous than the upper class? If you care deeply about the human condition, do you make an anti-humanist film?
2058. Yorum: How appropriate that so much of this movie involves people getting repeatedly bashed over the head...
2059. Yorum: I recall reading an interview with director Bong Joon-ho shortly before “Parasite” premiered in Cannes in which he voiced his concerns that the film might not be much of a hit with critics, because they were unlikely to fully comprehend what he was going for. It was a mostly self-deprecating hunch, not voiced with a trace of condescension against uninformed foreigners, but genuine concern that he might have aimed for too narrow of a target audience. To an extent I get his reservations, which clearly turned out to be unfounded when the jury declared his project the unanimously selected winner of the Palme D’Or. On a surface level, everyone can figure out that he is drawing a satirical parable of the stark class disparities in his home country of South Korea, where thousands of college graduates would apparently jump at the chance to be a full-time chauffeur for a business tycoon. While educated and wealthy tech executives can afford to reside in fancy homes designed by celebrated architects, entire families are cramped into moldy, insect-ridden basement rooms without power, let alone WiFi. But the cultural minutia and the more subtle references he sprinkles into his sharp script are likely somewhat lost on Western audiences.
2061. Yorum: Moved me to my core for reasons I’m not comfortable sharing in a Letterboxd review. 
2062. Yorum: Yeah, it’s fine.
2063. Yorum: experiencing this film in a cinema with hundreds of other people was one of the most thrilling experiences of my life.
2064. Yorum: dong-ik: you know a place where i can get braised ribs?
2065. Yorum: A scathing indictment of class disparity, meticulous in its mapping of confinement. Bong Hive always wins. Too bad about everyone else.
2066. Yorum: That first hour!! 👌🏻👌🏻👌🏻
2069. Yorum: Stop reading this if you haven't seen the film. Don't watch any of the trailers. Avoid looking at even a tweet about this movie.
2070. Yorum: holy motherfucking shit. spell masterpiece to me, please
2071. Yorum: Pretentious bullshit.
2072. Yorum: i have no one to talk about this with
2074. Yorum: Diary Entry for Every Year of Film
2078. Yorum: This has to be the best South Korean movie and one of the best movies I've seen. It definitely hit it out of the park with its title ‘Parasite’, because it's all about the poor ‘Kim family’ tricking their way into the rich ‘Park family's’ house to live off their wealth. Watching the guy climb the stairs in the kid's story, even though it's not a horror movie, really had me spooked. And when the maid opened the secret door into the bunker, it made me think the movie was turning into a horror flick. Especially when she started yelling for her "honey", I imagined they were hiding some monster down there or something crazy. But the whole time the camera was following them was just awesome. The tension, fear, and the waiting for something bad to happen made it feel like you were right there with them, being pulled down into it. In short, the movie had no loose ends or gaps in the story, with great acting and characters we could connect with. This really shows how a movie can become pure art, and 'Bong Joon Ho' did an amazing job making it happen.
2079. Yorum: In My Top 100
2084. Yorum: rewatched this to see if it would work well for my film class essay... i think im leaning towards using nightcrawler. i have to focus more specifically on marx's media theory vs just his capitalist critiques.
2086. Yorum: I got to tell you, it was perfect. Perfect. Everything, down to the last minute details.
2087. Yorum: Even on a rewatch, it’s insane to see how many different directions this thing goes. As you’re watching it you don’t even know who to root for, who is being glorified/antagonized, and ultimately what light in which the film is trying to communicate its ideas in. It’s masterful storytelling that has no objective, no true way to see what is right and wrong, it’s just chaos, betrayal, the human psyche in full form: the rich want to stay in power, the poor want to climb the ladder; a very simple (and very much overused) foundation for class commentary that’s fully enhanced by the film’s direction, tone, sick sense of humor, and phenomenal performances that speak for themselves. I usually try my best to be as interesting as possible with my opinions but I have to side with the majority here, Parasite is one of the past decade’s absolute masterworks. It’s one of the best films of the 21st century, and it’s one that’ll definitely stand the test of time.
2089. Yorum: this is such a palate cleanse of a movie in regards to everything tension building and social satire. was beyond happy to take the boyfriend for his first time viewing of it at a local cinema. quite the cinephile rite of passage these days, dare I say?
2091. Yorum: wtf!! so so so good!! i regret not watching this sooner! even my brother stopped what he was looking at to watch
2092. Yorum: Can't really say anything about Parasite that hasn't already been said. I was about to write a long paragraph on what makes this movie so incredible but everyone else has already done it.
2094. Yorum: I think the best kind of movie that discuss social issues is the one that audiences are forced to think and see them on screen, and also be entertaining/engaging throughout the runtime (Parasite, One flew over the cuckoo's nest etc.). Audience shouldn't need to read reviews and explanation videos in order to understand the message of the movie. This one is masterfully done and probably is the best we've had in 2010s.
2095. Yorum: one of the coolest things about Parasite is its core conceit is a sitcom level misunderstanding elevated to an operatic level of drama by weird architecture and the horrors of capitalism.
2096. Yorum: two rules for new friends: must share political views and must enjoy parasite
2097. Yorum: no bc i genuinely think this is the best movie ever. not a single flaw. perfect filmography perfect casting perfect directing perfect editing. the peach sequence alone i would give the best picture award. the eyes scene where the little boy sees the basement man?? that is horror. thr constant parallels between each family and their experiences and circumstances. the scene where mr. kim has his dying daughter in his hands and mr. park literally doesn’t care at all and even insults him through gestures. and the way the smell motif gradually builds up until that scene. THE WAY AT THE BEGINNING YOU THINK THE KIM FAMILY IS THE PARASITES BECAUSE OF THE WAY THEY’RE SCAMMING AND USING THE PARK FAMILY GAIN BUT BY THE END YOU KNOW THE PARK FAMILY AND RICH PEOPLE IN GENERAL ARE THE REAL PARASITES BECAUSE OF HOW THEY LEECH OFF AND EXPLOIT THE POOR FOR THEIR OWN GAIN!!!!! oh my god jesus christ best movie ever. bong joon ho you are on a higher plane of existence
2098. Yorum: Fourth viewing.
2100. Yorum: It's good to see this again removed from the buzz and hubbub. I like it a bit more. I'm happy it won the big one because that award is so arbitrary and weird that this might as well have it than anything else and it was great to see support and extra publicity for an Asian film. I'm still underwhelmed though (which I'm only saying because of the general consensus on this film). Whatever. It's got lots of strengths and is a very good film and I'm not motivated to share my complaints, which are mostly to do with the class theme. Also, I don't feel qualified to have complaints so I'll keep my mouth shut because apparently the film is dripping with local details and specific commentary on Korean society that I just wouldn't notice or understand.
2101. Yorum: Inverse gentrification? That's fucking ingenius. Where was Parasite before I wasted £40k on a degree?
2102. Yorum: Parasite black & white criterion watch.
2103. Yorum: it’s just so fucking good
2104. Yorum: i think parasite is the best movie in the entire world and i should say it ‼️
2105. Yorum: I just watched this movie as an instructive tutorial on how to make ram-don. I think I need to re-watch it anytime soon to make any progress.. (more like try to actually make ram-don but that's beside the point)
2107. Yorum: "this is so metaphorical"
2108. Yorum: I Watched Parasite And Now I Hate Children And Call Them Bourgeoisie Pigs For Having Fun In The Rain
2110. Yorum: Ive never watched a movie that I wanted to end so soon while loving every minute of it
2111. Yorum: Parasite is an ingeniously crafted film that deftly blends satire, suspense, and thriller genres, making it a truly unique cinematic experience. Bong Joon-ho's writing is richly detailed and elegant, delivering a tale that explores the socio-economic divide between two families.
2112. Yorum: Alright, yeah, I get the hype. I’m so glad I finally saw this. My lord, this is a bloody brilliant film. I sat there in shock, unable to process much for probably twenty minutes after the credits started rolling. This film felt like a sucker punch, but it’s a subtle punch because it does not hit the audience over the head with its message yet it is so incredibly clear. You get punched early, but really feel the pain at the end. What an immensely painful and artful film.
2120. Yorum: On one level Parasite is a thrilling, entertaining and unpredictable tale that will keep you guessing and literally keep you sitting up as you watch it. On a higher level this film will go down in history as an insightful exploration of the economic disparity of our current world. 
2122. Yorum: Black and white hits differently
2123. Yorum: You Picked, I Watched.
2124. Yorum: somehow watching this for a second time with a packed theater of obnoxious elderly white people made it even better. their laughing at human suffering amplified the impact parasite had on me from scene to scene. the perfectly-tuned anger onscreen feels so tangible and poignant that it’s hard to imagine anyone not empathizing or making an effort to understand, which is why this film is so vital.
2125. Yorum: it keeps clinging to me
2126. Yorum: I would do anything to watch this movie for the first time again.
2127. Yorum: truly a different experience when someone next to u is screaming “HE’S ANGRY CAT TYPING HER PUSSY”
2128. Yorum: No director working today does tonal shifts as intensely and effectively as Bong Joon-ho. Parasite starts uncomfortably funny, morphs into skin-crawling terror, then settles on gut-wrenching emotional turmoil. It had me utterly hooked and consistently surprised. It's been a while since I've seen a film that creates such a tangible physical environment. Most of the story unfolds in an obscenely expensive and beautifully designed house. It is so beautifully tied into the action. Joon-ho and crew always make sure we know exactly where we are. It is also a powerful reflection of the film's themes, especially in harsh comparison to the semi-basement dwelling we open with. The players that move within the house are all brilliant. Song Kang-ho's small moments are as impressive as his violent turns. Cho Yeo-jeong is wonderfully tense, and Lee Sun-kyun is quietly despicable. Park So-dam is the highlight with her raucous, manipulative, drunken performance. I hope to see her in more things. Like Snowpiercer and Memories of Murder, Parasite left me buzzing and pleasantly shell-shocked. I can't wait to see where Joon-ho goes next.
2129. Yorum: Around the World Challenge - South Korea
2130. Yorum: Poor families taking it out on each other to please the rich instead of taking it out on the rich. Capitalism and American politics in a nutshell
2131. Yorum: One of the best films of the year.
2133. Yorum: FUCK IT 10/10
2134. Yorum: Always a fascinating filmmaker, Bong Joon-ho has really pulled off something special with PARASITE. At times hilarious and horrifying the film is a roller coaster of the disparity of those with wealth and those who want a taste of it.
2137. Yorum: this really is that fucking good.
2138. Yorum: Loved this rampage of violence and class rage until everyone else decided they also love it and now I think it's overrated and represents American colonial fantasies where a critique of economic injustice is only valid from a safe distance within a racial minority that flatters the vain politics of the left and disregarded if it comes from anywhere closer to home.
2139. Yorum: This movie goes from “ha ha!” to “oh no!” so subtly that you don’t really notice it’s an “oh no” moment until you’re like “oh no!!!”
2140. Yorum: ALL ASPECTS OF THIS FILM IS A+
2141. Yorum: PARASITE has one of the most inventive and wild stories of the year. With so many unexpected surprises and a cast of wonderfully amusing characters, this film is absolutely mesmerizing and you won't look away.
2142. Yorum: Overstimulating, overwhelming, and mutant after all, this film ends as its beginning and the tagline have planned.
2143. Yorum: Fantastically shot with clever camera positions and well thought out set design. Joon Ho's latest was awarded the Palm D'Or at Cannes and you can see why. His previous films have had something to say about societal structures, norms and practices. This is no different with issues if materialism / class boundaries at play. There's also nods to South Korea's relationship with the North and the USA.
2147. Yorum: Since the announcement of Palme d'Or for Best Film, there has been a big curiosity rising about Bong Joon-ho's Parasite. Storytelling is one aspect that flows through the movie, the characters and everything surrounding it. Parasite presses into something so unique and yet so real at point that you are awe struck by the beautiful flow of it.
2149. Yorum: South Korean auteur Bong Joon-Ho has left his usual scifi haunts for something more regular - though his usual thematic preoccupations of class and inequality are stronger than ever. Parasite uses the tonal mastery Bong has quietly developed and finds it unleashed at full force with a film that is wildly funny, tense, dark, poignant, moving, thought provoking, and enraging - all coherently so, more's the astonishment.
2150. Yorum: holy SHIT i laughed i cried a number of times i sweat i danced i got a shot i ate and i had many epiphanies literally i laughed i cried a number of times i sweat i danced i got a shot i ate and i had many epiphanies
2152. Yorum: It’s getting to the point where I’m beginning to pick up on all of the intricacies of this film. Like how the man in the basement mentions he went bankrupt investing in a cake company, the same cake company that the dad mentions he was fired from a few scenes prior. Bong Joon-ho is a genius.
2153. Yorum: my first watch in almost 4 years. it felt like i was watching it for the first time. i forgot a lot of the plot points so i was incredibly invested throughout. i had to watch this for my film as literature class and will soon be writing an essay about its shot composition, so it was amazing to take a closer look at the film’s cinematography and analyze the crap out of it. how the camera pans reveal the stark contrast in social statuses, how one can enjoy a lovely rainy evening while another is scrambling for their livelihood…my piano skills have greatly improved the past year so i took special note of the score as well. man, it’s awesome. jung jae-il is scoring mickey17 too so i’m especially looking forward to that. i just can’t wait for bong joon-ho’s grand followup in general. it may be a january movie now but i like to think of it as a birthday gift.
2154. Yorum: I don't know what to say other than I'm blown away. I'm completely shook by what I just witnessed and I will probably remain shook for a while. So much happened in this that I don't think I can give it a 10/10 until I sit with it for a while but man that was incredible. So intricately put together with amazing performances and killer directing from the absolute master that is Bong Joon-ho. from Memories of Murder to THIS. I don't know if it's better than Memories of Murder yet but I do know that Bong Joon-ho is on a level that only a few directors are at for me. He's that good. Song Kang-ho not getting nominated for this has gotta be one of the worst decisions the Academy has ever made. Robbed. But yeah i'm glad this took home Best Picture cuz it's incredible.
2155. Yorum: FUUUCK FUUCK THIS IS AWESOME. It will shock you halfway through. Hold your loved ones close. They will need your Reassurance as tensions rise
2157. Yorum: It feels so amazing to finally see this gem again, and it even feels extra amazing bc I got to rewatch it with my boyfriend awww 🥺👉🏼👈🏼  💓  hahahahaha ✌️ 
2159. Yorum: A laugh turns into a snarl which gets in the thought like a sob - or an arrow through the neck - in Bong Joon-Ho's latest wild, wild ride, Parasite. On a Letterboxd reveiw, that might not sound so very different from watching Bong's Snowpiercer, Memories Of Murder, The Host or Okja. The Korean trickster god is above all known for his uncategorisable movie melees which tumble bloodily down the genre stairs hitting every step - comedy, horror, drama, social commentary, slasher, creature feature, murder mystery, manifesto for vegetarianism - on the way. But while Parasite certainly cycles through more than half the list, the vicious and sob more despairing than we've ever had from him before. Bong is back and on brilliant form, but he is unmistakably, roaringly furious, and it registers because the target is so deserving and enormous, so 2019: Parasite is a tick fat with the bitter blood of class range. It doesn't start that way. With typical feint-and-parry dexterity, the film begins as a so-close-its- almost-self-conscious Korean reworking of the last year's Palme d' Or winner Shoplifters. Here too we have a ramshackle but loving family driven dubious extremes by poverty-stricken circumstances and a rumpled patriarch who bursts amusingly with pride at even the most marginal of kids achievements.
2160. Yorum: Parasite. A name that proves it’s worth throughout the duration of the movie. A parasitic relationship both ways. One for money. Another so any menial task could be done. But as the movie draws on it becomes more complex. It is hard to distinguish who is the host and who is the blood sucking insect at points. This blending of symbolism that seems to come from every direction overwhelms but also enlightens the audience on just how complex the word of Social classes can be especially when many levels are thrust together. Truely an excellent take on an age old matter.
2161. Yorum: Who knew the solution to poverty was simply deciding to earn money
2163. Yorum: Thinking about the brief moment the Kims consider the old driver and whether he's found a new job or not, and how they're sure he has because he looked so nice and clean cut, he has to have found a new job by now, thinking about being desperate, and this is dumb but I spent the whole movie thinking about the X song "We're Desperate," and about the scene in Decline of Western Civilization when Exene worries they're not going to be able to play that song much longer because people will say "sure they're desperate, I just paid six dollars to see this band, they're not desperate," but Exene also says "there's worse ways of being desperate than being poor," thinking about how I'm not desperate anymore but that's because I spent the last two years pretty consistently working seven days a week and convincing myself I didn't need a consistent day off because I'm friends with my coworkers, so if I want to see my friends I can just come to work, thinking about how, when I was desperate, anything seemed good and worth it and I would've done anything for steady money, and you have thoughts like, "maybe selling pictures of my feet to perverts on the internet wouldn't be that bad if it means I could afford to pay rent and buy groceries," not that I ever got any offers, I wouldn't know how to go about setting that up and plus I have gross feet, but the desperate idea is still there, thinking about how I never notice how much the smell of chocolate popcorn clings to me until I wash my hair and the hot water heightens it, thinking about the wealth rock clinging to Ki-woo and the deluge that comes, first a stream of drunk piss, then buckets to shoo the piss away, then the flood, and you have to sit on the toilet to keep the brown water from shooting out, thinking about how the Parks are "nice because they're rich," thinking about how the Parks could come see this movie but the Kims probably work weekends, thinking about all the people this movie's critiquing coming to see it at my theater and leaving their half-eaten large popcorn and empty wine cups in their seats for me to clean up, how that gives me something to do, right, that's my job, even though we have trash cans in the lobby and lining the walls of the horseshoe leading to the theater, thinking about how much more bitter I am now than when I started working in the service industry, I'm not nice like the madame of the house, people make little "ooh, who wants to help me mooore?" jokes when two registers are open and they do a little shuffle between the two open registers like they can't decide and I don't laugh, so they usually choose the other register, thinking about haunted houses, thinking a lot about the "do you still have those cheap panties" "I want drugs" sex fantasy scene, how sexy and kinky it is to be poor
2164. Yorum: Compare the living room windows of the Kim and Park families. Parasite's opening shot begins with the former - a vantage point that is below street level, permeable to all of the filth, clatter, and hardship of the slums. Moments into the film, Kang-ho Song's Ki-taek Kim encourages leaving the windows open so that pesticide can seep into the apartment and exterminate an infestation of stink bugs for free (or the low cost of the family's discomfort). Though the Park family's window is more readily transparent - a floor to ceiling glass exterior - it looks out upon a barrier to the rest of Korean society; hedges taller than the residents wall off the outside world, sealing off the family's lavish mansion. Dong-ik Park repeatedly warns Ki-taek not to "cross the line" referring to the candor of their conversation, but Joon-ho Bong suggests that line is a lot more metaphorical ("It's so metaphorical!"). In the world of Parasite (and, considering Burning deals with similar issues, contemporary Korean society, in general) the layers - or lines - stratifying the classes are akin to hermetic seals. The wealthy treat the poor like a disease, anxious that if their staff are not vetted correctly the "wrong" people could get in. Of course, like with any parasite, infection is often inevitable.
2165. Yorum: Still marvelous and captivating until the woefully disappointing third act. Brilliantly conceived and structured. If only it stuck the landing.
2166. Yorum: they said if downton abbey was successful they'd consider doing a sequel but man i wasnt expecting it only a few weeks later!
2167. Yorum: this is so metaphorical
2168. Yorum: (disclaimer- I had a screener for this. I like the film a lot and plan to rush to the theatre when it releases October 11th if it comes anywhere near me)
2169. Yorum: Watching Parasite is probably the cinematic equivalent of falling down a rabbit hole. It's full of surprises and twists. I LOVED every second of this film.
2170. Yorum: i cannot stress this enough but this is THE best movie ever made. a masterpiece in every way. felt incredible watching it again i was SOBBING at the end. cant believe 5 years have passed already everything that can be said about this movie has already been said but THE FUCKING THEMES AND ITS TAKEAWAY MESSAGE i genuinely think abt it a lot.
2172. Yorum: Os coreanos têm o molho/Koreans got the sauce (🇧🇷/🇬🇧)
2173. Yorum: holy shit! that was insane. why did i just watch this now. was not what i was expecting but still enjoyed it
2174. Yorum: A movie so good, I had a panic attack during it
2175. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there’s no need for a plan. You can’t go wrong with no plans. We don’t need to make a plan for anything. It doesn’t matter what will happen next. Even if the country gets destroyed or sold out, nobody cares. Got it?” - Kim Ki-taek
2176. Yorum: This will be the last movie I watch until my flight with my gf to the Philippines but I gotta say this movie is different in its own way. The movie takes a complete turn and takes the audience for a wild ride of awes and shocks. Great symbolism and realism. Can’t wait what the Philippines will bring when it comes to film!
2177. Yorum: “we ordered it from the U.S., it’ll be fine” … said no one ever
2180. Yorum: What makes this movie different is its subtly presented dialogue, nuances or symbols that makes all the difference when it comes to its final few scenes. The movie uses these features so cleverly to express its motif of how class can be binding, dictating your behaviour and attitudes. Even better on 2nd viewing as you notice more clever plot devices.
2181. Yorum: What can I say that’s not already been said, a complete masterpiece in every way. 
2182. Yorum: noticed so many details this time round oh my god
2183. Yorum: IMDb Top 100 / WATCHLIST 
2185. Yorum: SAWBUCK
2186. Yorum: i went into that clueless and holy shit
2187. Yorum: the ending is the alternative beginning of the twilight saga
2188. Yorum: i did it. i finally watched it. now you can all shut up
2190. Yorum: Underrated movie, you guys should check this out it deserves more recognition, especially on letterboxd
2191. Yorum: Oh my God! This was amazing! I will never forget the first time I watched this! I was expecting it to be amazing and IT SURPASSED MY EXPECTATIONS! *chefs kiss*
2192. Yorum: I’m glad I finally got around to this. Thrilling from start to finish, Parasite blends together several different concepts and combines it with great direction and pacing. It’s easy to see why it won best picture, it deserves all the hype it gets. The main negative I suppose I had was that I feel like the ending was a bit prolonged. I think it would’ve been better if the film was 10-15 minutes shorter. Regardless, I’m super excited to check out a lot more of Bong Joon-ho’s work and Korean cinema in general. Just from this film alone you can already see his immense quality as a filmmaker.
2193. Yorum: finally watched the black and white version of parasite, and though the film may not necessarily be better this way, the monochrome color palet really does give it an entirely different feel.
2194. Yorum: I pretty much remembered each moment, which is usually not the norm. The last time was just two years ago, but I've also had other rewatches with a similar time difference where I had forgotten a lot. It speaks to how special the film is considering how much it has permeated the landscape culturally and it speaks to how unforgettable it is considering it doesn't fade out of your mind. There is simply not a single weak beat in the movie and even without the surprise factor, it's a layered and a wickedly entertaining film.
2196. Yorum: I would watch this any day
2198. Yorum: The title, cover, and description lead me to believe it's a horror movie. It is not.
2199. Yorum: this film is studied at universities by scholars experts artists educators scientists etc etc.
2200. Yorum: I was on the fence about Parasite last year when I saw it. Well it's won me over. It kinda has everything doesnt it? It's funny, exciting, and exhilarating in spite of its complexity. I sense it's going to be a regular rewatch.
2201. Yorum: This might just be the perfect film imo. Not a single moment wasted in this insanely unique story and the way it progresses with the tension rising throughout is just incredible. The soundtrack is perfection and the performances are spectacular man I can't praise it enough. That little montage when they were sabotaging the housekeeper in particular is just *chef's kiss*. I'm so glad this got the recognition it deserves.
2202. Yorum: All Films Watched in 2020, Ranked / 2019 Films, Ranked / Bong Joon-ho, Ranked / 5 Star Films
2203. Yorum: can someone please make the porn bots stop. who even thought letterboxd would be the ideal place to scout desperate porn watchers? or maybe it's the ideal place...
2204. Yorum: no one gonna talk about how the boy just stole his friends girl😔🤚🏼
2205. Yorum: look, at this point you don't need me to tell you how good this movie is. this is the first time i've watched it since seeing it in cinemas literally moments before this year started to turn to shit for me - even though i only saw it once all those months ago there were visuals and moments and turns of phrase that were indelibly burned into my brain, because it's all so effectively constructed. even when you know what to expect the whole thing is still such a thrill.
2206. Yorum: Last ten minutes almost ruin it for me; I think the epilogue is incredibly useless, and undermines a lot of the film. Even though you can [easily] grab it's thematic intent (a continuous cycle of false hope), it doesn't add anything to this story, and feels clunky, and stupid. This really stands out to me because the rest of the film is aces. This reminds me a lot of The Social Network, in a very specific way; a movie that's pretty much perfect, but I don't ever feel anything more than admiration, and I know I can watch repeatedly. I never feel myself "loving" it, but I also (outside of the ending) can't really fault anything; this is a high level of filmmaking that is so efficient, confident, and thorough, it makes sense to me why this has transcended into being claimed by the canon, and will propel Bong to a higher stage.
2207. Yorum: ...i ended up pressing replay
2208. Yorum: "Jessica, only child, Illinois, Chicago. Classmate Kim Jin-mo, he's your cousin."
2209. Yorum: My first viewing of this film will not be my last. Not by a long shot.
2211. Yorum: bong + cast & crew deserve all the praise they've gotten and much more.
2212. Yorum: This film really rocked ahaha
2214. Yorum: There’s a huge Get Out (2017) texture and overall feel to Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite (2019) to the point where I’m wondering if the South Korean filmmaker’s Oscar winner was influenced in any way by Jordan Peele’s seminal film. Every performance along with the direction and subtext in this movie is so significant to its overall impact, as were said elements in Peele’s Oscar nominated offering, and no doubt will be a wet dream for any film lecturer to dissect it’s existence and purpose in years to come if it hasn’t begun already.
2215. Yorum: So many moments that spark goosebumps but on this watch I was left dumbstruck at the shot of Song Kang-ho standing neck-deep in sewer water, holding back tears as he surveys his drowning basement home. So much heart in this film about comical con artists.
2216. Yorum: I finally saw this film few days before it made history at the Oscars. My expectations were obviously sky high given all the praise from critics and audiences, especially letterboxd and film twitter.
2217. Yorum: When I first saw it, I knew it was something truly special. Their wins were historic and Bong Joon-ho is an inspiration to many aspiring filmmakers out there. Truly deserved.
2218. Yorum: I showed this to some friends who haven’t seen it and watching their reactions to it intensified the experience and my love for this movie. I noticed things I didn’t originally pick up on. Since a lot of us study how communication is used to display our view of the world, others and ourselves, we were able to unpack even more about this movie. Yeah, I ducking love this movie and it just became tied with knives out as my favorite movie from 2019. That ending still hits me. 😩💚
2219. Yorum: The hype train was strong with this one! It did not affect my viewing though. An excellent thriller that keeps you enthralled through out. I was expecting a little more insanity, but things still got pretty crazy. Not sure why, I was craving a bit more zaniness from this flick and I didn’t get it. That’s not the films fault though. 
2220. Yorum: Kim Dong-ik after Park Ki-taek gives him the fake business card: “Look at that subtle off-white coloring. The tasteful thickness of it. Oh my God, it even has a watermark.”
2221. Yorum: Second viewing and it still kicks ass. A masterpiece.
2222. Yorum: I have seen this 4 times now, and I still notice more subtle details, more elements in the production design, more foreshadowing, more nuances in the performances and the script... Parasite is a masterpiece, nigh perfect, immensely entertaining and meticulously crafted. This is my lock for Best Picture this year, and the kind of film that will open audiences to a new kind of cinema and will inspire directors for decades to come.
2224. Yorum: i can excuse scamming rich people but i draw the line at eating pineapple pizza
2225. Yorum: if this doesn’t win best picture we’re eating the rich
2226. Yorum: As I ventured into this film, I hadn’t known anything related to the story or genre for that matter. It turns out, Parasite is a wholly original concept that’s equally hysterical & haunting. The movie is a wildly enjoyable ride that brilliantly interweaves between crafty humor & dangerous suspense. There’s a sense of realism among the characters revolving the depiction of superior upper class & desperate lower class citizens. The interactions between the two groups ultimately builds a frightening & surreal tension toward its climax. South Korean Director/Co-Writer Boon Joon Ho, “The Host”, “Snowpiercer”, “a lock for the best international film & possibly directing Oscar 2019”, once again impresses as he tops himself with a twisted & surprising picture, one that will stick with you long after it’s over.
2227. Yorum: I'm going to be very upset when this film doesn't win Best Picture at the Oscars.
2228. Yorum: Can’t believe I waited this long to see a masterpiece. Thank god for Korean filmmakers, actors, actresses, etc for always bringing unique family stories to life. The entire family dynamics in this film is brilliant, every single line that was delivered was convincing and conniving and yet somehow familiar to the depth of what human beings do to survive. 
2229. Yorum: watching this for a third time in theaters really indulged the part of me that loves finding how seemingly insignificant details become major setups later in this movie. squirting hot sauce on pizza foretells the tuberculosis trick. polite small talk about cub scouts during ki-woo's job interview ties the ending sequence of the film together. an initial joke about how members of the kim family all smell the same becomes a concise summation of ki-taek's entire motivational and emotional arc. every shot and line of dialogue has metaphorical intention. not a second feels wasted. i don't think i've seen another film so careful and meticulous in its writing and direction, nor a film with such a perfectly orchestrated rhythm.
2230. Yorum: Kinda missing a WOW factor for me that I think would've added a lot, but still this is fantastic. The direction and filmmaking is incredible and engrossing. The ideas at play are both very subtle and very on the nose at the same time (and I mean that in a very positive way)
2231. Yorum: so that’s what the definition of truly being speechless is?
2232. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all.”
2235. Yorum: I never saw any advertisements for this film, but everyone I talked to was just raving on and on about how great it was. I heard it was one of the films of the year and some even called it a masterpiece. Every critic, Youtuber, and moviegoer alike were praising this film. I was ready for something special here. 
2237. Yorum: I wish this had more satirical bite than "rich people are annoying, it sucks being poor." But Bong can direct the hell out of a suspense scene, and Parasite does deliver some unexpected jolts. Still, the class war theme has about as much depth as a populist Spielberg thrill ride.
2238. Yorum: This is the only film in the history of my entire life that has made my jaw literally drop open.....
2241. Yorum: no words just academy award
2242. Yorum: Yep. You guys were right. I believe in cinema.
2243. Yorum: One of the few movies to explicitly recall Hitchcock and pretty much earn it. Masterful from tip to tail..... respect the grift !!
2244. Yorum: really good! think it was funnier than i had initially expected and the pacing is magnificent. can go a bit too zany or overdramatic directions at times but i think i like the campy atmosphere it holds. looks like the hype was justified for once
2245. Yorum: What’s wrong with me?
2246. Yorum: Believe the hype. It's fucking fantastic.
2248. Yorum: Love sixth time watches for the first time
2250. Yorum: Just rewatched this with my parents (probably their first Korean film ever I believe) and it made me extremely happy to see them laugh, tremble on the edge of their seat and ultimately succumb to Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece. I know they will be talking about it for days, asking me, because "this is so metaphorical"!!!!
2251. Yorum: what kind of plan never fails?
2252. Yorum: I could easily see myself giving this at least 4.5 stars, but I'm going to hold off until I rewatch it, the last 15 mins lost me a bit.
2253. Yorum: western cinema should just give up and go home, south korea has what they want! that’s it everyone! nothing left to see!!
2254. Yorum: I went into this ice cold and left fuelled with a fire almost unbearable. Parasite is truly that bitch.
2255. Yorum: "If you make a plan, life never works out that way".
2256. Yorum: This movie has everything you expect from a Bong Joon-Ho film. The climax is pretty crazy but also beautiful in a way. Growing up poor I did relate to the characters some even if I didn't agree with what they were doing. Is it the best movie ever? Nah but it's a solid film.
2257. Yorum: A top film for 2019.
2258. Yorum: i truly feel speechless & i am having trouble composing my thoughts. much of the movie felt a little too slow, but the parts that don’t feel slow fly by & make this film the 5 star film it is. even after the first 30 minutes it’s difficult to predict where the plot is going, but the pieces fit perfectly after a while. i have some unanswered questions but honestly in a film like this, they don’t seem to matter. the performances, cinematography, & script have got to be some of the best of the year & should be praised. i might be able to go more into depth later but i am blanking on my thoughts on, Parasite.
2259. Yorum: Sort of iconic that my favorite two films from the past two years are Shoplifters and Fucked Up Shoplifters.
2261. Yorum: Bong has yet to ever disappoint me, consistently one-upping his filmography with heavily philosophical and political scopes and virtues. It will be utterly astonishing if he can accomplish something of equal caliber (OR BETTER) in the future. There is a manner in which he manifests his eccentric and harshly realistic understandings and perspectives of societal and class structures that are both immensely funny and a gut-punch of self-awareness in the cyclical spectrum of humanism. Parasite starts off with a bang and ends with a bloody knife in your face, forcing you to confront yourself in the vast myriad of our humanistic morals juxtaposed with those already set in place for you. It may be a losing battle, but it’s always worth the fight to the death.
2265. Yorum: Bong, darling, honey you making all of those  european film makers look bad. 
2266. Yorum: I have enjoyed Bong Joon-ho's films over the years, particularly The Host (2006) and Mother (2009), without being wildly enthusiastic about his filmmaking. However, Parasite far eclipses anything else he has done and I am now firmly in fanboy mode.
2267. Yorum: There are two kinds of five-star movies in my book: 1) the ones that I can rewatch for the rest of my life, and 2) the ones that are not only masterpieces, but they also spark my curiosity to study them and make me love cinema even more. PARASITE belongs to the latter category.
2268. Yorum: Grew off me a bit but still incredible and one of my favorite thrillers
2269. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho showcases a lot of complex layers that combine to make one memorable, intense experience. This movie is extremely funny one minute and then the most depressing movie ever the next. At times it's over the top. There are a few crazy, unpredicable moments that will make your jaw drop.
2270. Yorum: When your circle is small but yall crazy 🤪
2272. Yorum: Lost count of how many times I had rewatched this film but I don't really plan to stop. 
2274. Yorum: Parasite, the best movie of all time according to the Letterboxd. But what actually is it? I believe that it’s just an overrated piece of shit with plastic characters and stereotyped images of poor and rich people, weak script and nonsence in the end. I don’t understand what should people feel after watching this movie, why should someone empathise main characters or that family from basement? Why should I hate Pack and his family, who are portrayed as ignorant terrible people just because they're living better than others? I have too many questions to this movie and not in the good way.
2276. Yorum: This was the greatest thing i have ever watched but my house was broken into by a guy wearing an among us costume while i was watching this and was acting kinda sus.
2277. Yorum: I noticed quite a bit on this rewatch. 
2278. Yorum: I remember leaving the theater and my dad simply said:
2281. Yorum: Even after months of hype, two full viewings, tons of talk online, so many other amazing reviews from people on here and from professional critics, even after all of that, I still find new ways to love this movie. I've already written 2 huge reviews of this movie, so here's just some sporadic thoughts and observations I wanted to point out:
2282. Yorum: enjoying future best picture 2020 winner before it wins tonight
2283. Yorum: “It’s the rock which keeps holding onto me.”
2284. Yorum: “That’s so metaphorical!”
2285. Yorum: i am ..blown away the movie title couldnt be more perfect, this was amazing from every angle and i am so glad it won this yrs palme d'or because it deserved it!! it was so smart + well knit and nowhere near predictable, this was a masterpiece full stop. also i think if you watch this and us (2019) back to back your third eye will open
2286. Yorum: Watched this without subtitles in a Korean theater, just to see what the experience would be like. I was a little worried that I would get nothing from the story without being able to understand the langauge, but I still enjoyed the hell out of this movie. It was so fun and all over the place, and I can't wait to rewatch soon.
2287. Yorum: Watching this in Black & White just changed the whole atmosphere completely and I adored it!!
2290. Yorum: This film is a masterpiece, everything was immaculately planned and executed. It was so comical at the start so at the end I got caught off guard with the tragedy so sad.
2293. Yorum: the scene of them hiding under the coffee table was so…. if you know you know. had me sweating for them!!! this was truly worth the 2 hours i don’t even know where to begin
2295. Yorum: R.I.P lee sun kyun, you will be missed
2296. Yorum: “you know what kind of plan never fails? no plan. no plan at all”
2297. Yorum: Perfectly done.
2299. Yorum: You guys ever heard of this?????????
2300. Yorum: Decided to start the year right and finally watch this beloved masterpiece. I have nothing negative to say about Parasite I mean it's basically flawless. The best film of 2019, maybe the best of the 2010's. It's funny, sad, tense, and thought provoking. Shot, written, and acted to perfection. One of the best films I've ever seen.
2302. Yorum: I hadn't seen this movie in a very long time, but I recently got the bluray, and it's just amazing to see how it still stands the test of time. Bong Joon-ho is careful in crafting this masterpiece, with a tight script, a really important sense of space and metaphor, great dark humor, and overall a perfect and sharp film.
2303. Yorum: Such an amazing film filled with dark humour.  Excellent performances all around. 
2304. Yorum: outstanding is an understatement. there is no word in the english language that comes close to the praise that deserves to become synonymous with this film.
2305. Yorum: Definitely works even better as the second half of a double feature paired with Anchorman: The Legend of Ron Burgundy.
2306. Yorum: If I thought I was smart or clever enough to commend this film in a way that hasn’t already been done, I’d give it a try, but the fact is I’m not, so I’ll just say it’s an absolutely flawless film, and leave it at that.
2308. Yorum: I love how in the first half it's a scummy comedy and in the second half it becomes a full throttle thriller. Also, the house of the rich people...have you seen those hyper realistic minecraft mansions people do on YT? THIS WAS THE HOUSE OF THE RICH FAMILY I SWEAR TO GOD
2309. Yorum: when you watch it for the third or tenth time it doesn't become less significant.
2310. Yorum: Ki-taek: You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned.
2311. Yorum: this would have been better if dababy was featured in it.
2313. Yorum: Bong’s 3rd acts          Uni deadlines
2315. Yorum: tell me why bong joon-ho didn’t pull a cady heron at the oscars and give bits of his best picture award to steve pemberton and reece shearsmith since this film is clearly a copy of a quiet night in and to have and to hold 😤
2316. Yorum: Second watch, this time with my wife (who fucking loved it, as I knew she would). Holds up beautifully, and so much great foreshadowing the second time around. And that first half is truly impeccable.
2317. Yorum: Adelaide University Film Society is back in action, baby! I am sceptical that we'll be able to run for longer than a few weeks, but for now all I can do is enjoy it while it lasts.
2318. Yorum: Highly entertaining watch.
2319. Yorum: i had a chance to see the black and white version of this masterpiece at the cinema this afternoon and it was beautiful
2320. Yorum: The shot of the sister smoking in the flooded apartment, sitting on the lid as the toilet belches out filth, may be the coolest thing I’ve ever seen.
2321. Yorum: An often bamboozling genre mash-up of 'the con is on'/social satire/pratfalling physical comedy/oddball horror flick, the one thing you can say is its very Korean.
2322. Yorum: me (the entire time): 😱😲😱😲😱
2323. Yorum: Best Picture Revisited Film #2:
2324. Yorum: every time i watch a non-parasite movie i cant focus and 50% of my brain is being used to think about how much i'd rather be watching parasite.
2325. Yorum: Bong just-hoed us all with this seductive little masterpiece.
2326. Yorum: Featured Lists 
2328. Yorum: Listen, do you know how to make ram-dong?
2329. Yorum: Brought my mom this time and this was the first time she said “wow” after seeing a film.
2330. Yorum: This film is seriously fuckin’ perfect, everything it tries to do it does so flawlessly. On third viewing, it flows by EVEN better and gets better in general as a whole. While on a first viewing I was mostly focused on the overall plot and sequence of events, and on second viewing I paid more attention to the many set-ups and payoffs, on this watch I was just left admiring every single element of the overall craft so much. The direction is incredibly commanding and energetic and ties everything together beautifully, along with breathtaking cinematography and just insane camerawork, making for so many memorable shots. The script is also easily one of the best ever and not only is it incredibly nuanced and well-written overall but there seriously isn’t a single line of dialogue that doesn’t serve a specific purpose, narratively, thematically or character-wise. The production design is immaculate and characterful, the editing is superb, the performances are amazing across the board, and the score is simply unreal, it’s now in my top 10 favorite movie scores of all time, it’s incredibly intense and exhilarating even without the corresponding images and is just so well-composed and full of variety in tones.
2332. Yorum: What an absolutely stunning piece of work. A nasty, biting little satire...but one that also has so much heart.
2334. Yorum: keeping up this 5 star streak
2336. Yorum: The line-up to get in for this movie at today’s Vancouver International Film Festival screening ran for hundreds of people, took in multiple city blocks... and these were people who, like me, already had tickets... it was a site that warmed my cinema-loving heart... and then the sights and sounds of ‘Parasite’ lived up to that excitement in every single way... remarkably funny... just so fucking funny... until the laughs quickly stop... but whatever tone it strikes, it’s a truly brilliant parable of class warfare and the unfortunate reality that for someone to rise up, someone else has to be taken down.
2337. Yorum: Class struggle in its purest form.
2338. Yorum: First and foremost, this is contemporary masterpiece that depicts class struggle as brilliantly as a much-beloved Charles Dickens or Victor Hugo novel would, but by updating it to a 2019 social landscape and setting it in South Korea he in turns created a refreshingly magnificent beast of a film; The perfectly titled Parasite—2019's greatest movie of the year so far—is such a fiendishly bold high-wire act of filmmaking, juggling so many characters, styles, genres and tones so effortlessly that I was just consistently in awe of the craft as Joon-ho Bong never sets a foot wrong on his tightly wound rope of a film.
2339. Yorum: WHAT THE ACTUAL FUCK
2341. Yorum: The perpetuation of class struggle and working-class-competition-manifested-through-systemic-economic-retention as poignant, barraging satire. Simultaneously, a hyper-critical examination of the insidious eloquence in architecture's articulation of class segregation, formally operating as, primarily, a movie about the omnipresence and behavioural instigation provoked by architecture as to control and regulate conduct.
2342. Yorum: there's a scene in which a peach and an unexpected piece of classical music are involved and it's great, literally my aesthetic, this is what I want to achieve ! ! !
2344. Yorum: Might as well make my best of the year list now cause I really don’t possibly see how it can get much better than this!
2345. Yorum: holy fuck this was insane😭i genuinely felt my heart racing during the 2nd act
2346. Yorum: I am not gonna log this every now and then with a big review. I'll just put 1 phrase or something... But yeah, still a masterpiece 😅
2347. Yorum: I love the scents in this movie: the stink bug, the sewage, the "Mr. Kim" smell, the piss in the street, and the smell of the basement guy
2348. Yorum: PLEASE DONT COME AT ME FOR THE FOUR STAR RATING 😭😭😭😭😭😭😭😭
2351. Yorum: Sigh. I put this film on because the other day my work cut my hours, ..by half. It’s crazy to think how people who are so incredibly well off can make such a decision and expect you to survive. I needed a pick-me-up, and this film is it. The great lengths we go to prevail in this world, and here I am trying to do just that. 
2352. Yorum: This film means everything to me. It was the one that started getting me (more) into film and broadening my knowledge about film in general. Since then, I have seen many different and unique films that I very much enjoy. Every single time that I watch this, I’m always invested in the story because it’s such an interesting one. The performances, cinematography, music, etc. are also very magnificent. Parasite definitely earned those Oscars and it’s not hard to see why
2354. Yorum: This movie came out 1016 days ago and the world still hasn’t recovered
2356. Yorum: Didn’t realize, But I crossed 500 followers, Thanks to everyone who has been kind and a great support for me❤️
2357. Yorum: fifth time watching this
2358. Yorum: Parasite is the 2019 Oscar and Palme d’Or winning film directed by Bong Joon-ho set in South Korea. 
2359. Yorum: I started out watching foreign films when I watched Roma last year
2360. Yorum: Donald Trump has come out and said that Parasite should not have won Best Picture because it's South Korean. If ever there was a film Trump would dislike it's this one. I'm pretty sure he's never watched it due to the "one inch barrier of subtitles" that requires a basic literacy level to get through.
2362. Yorum: imagine walking out of a screen unseen of this 😩😩😩 unforgivable
2363. Yorum: Plays slightly better on rewatch, but I still find it too controlled to really enjoy it. And while on board with the ideas I didn't find Bong's handling of them that interesting. Overall it's fine, only a disappointment in that Bong has done better than this.
2364. Yorum: Parasite is a cinematic revelation, and a poignant, thought-provoking stroke of genius. This masterpiece is equally as hilarious & emotional, as it is haunting & INSANELY disturbing. We’ve never seen anything like it & doubt we’ll see anything like it again. It deserves to be nominated for everything and WIN everything. Believe the hype.
2365. Yorum: random detail, but i love bong joon-ho’s consistent use of diegetic sound here, specifically the sound of bare feet hitting concrete. it’s such a small, seemingly inconsequential choice, but it totally centers the viewer, and proves how tightly constructed parasite is from head to toe.
2367. Yorum: peaches in cmbyn walked so they could run in parasite
2368. Yorum: MOVED TO NO. 1 IN "2019 RANKED" :) 
2370. Yorum: I am a Bong Joon-Hoe for Bong Joon-Ho!
2371. Yorum: this is just amazing i can watch this movie over and over again as well.
2372. Yorum: I know, I’m basic for loving this film and giving it 5 stars. But to this film defense, it’s perfectly crafted and one of the best films to be made. Also on this viewing I loved the ending to this rather than hate on the ending. 
2376. Yorum: In this world, there are good films, there are great films, and then there’s Parasite.
2377. Yorum: This is my previous review besides the last part.
2378. Yorum: if ki-woo never dropped the stone
2382. Yorum: Watched in glorious 4k. Just an incredibly precise film. It draws its lines, it knows when to cross them.
2383. Yorum: They should have just stuck with their old jobs...
2384. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho is a master storyteller. Parasite hits poetic beats unlike anything else and nothing is done without purpose or payoff. Simply put; Parasite is immaculate. 
2387. Yorum: Finally watched this and holy shit wasn’t disappointed I enjoyed the whole movie were they snuck there family in to getting jobs and then the twist which is a weird twist because you just have that feeling already that something’s got to go wrong so I expected something but not that when she started screaming “honey”. The whole sequence of them escaping the house was tense as fuck and then their house getting flooded was really sad and you just know that the characters priorities have changed and that something big is gonna happen. My favourite thing about this film was the humour it was surprisingly funny. I just feel like I need to rewatch it at least 10 times to appreciate it.
2388. Yorum: Raw unpredictability and creativity at its finest -- safe to say it completely averted my expectations.
2389. Yorum: wow. every bit as excellent as advertised. to me, the very best films feel totally unpredictable until the instant a plot twist happens and then the epiphany hits that everything else in the movie had been building up to that moment. this was that. like of course i could predict generally where the plot was headed, but the sidetracks and back roads it took to get to the final destination were terrifyingly enthralling to gradually uncover. and the cinnamontography!!! sheesh!!! it’s really no wonder this film is as acclaimed as it is. i love it when a movie with a clear message doesn’t feel strictly like a message picture, and this one was handled beautifully. i don’t even have a funny one-liner man this was just a crazy good film
2393. Yorum: My 500th film logged on letterboxd, but coincidentally also my 100th of the year. The absolute perfect film to pick for this special occasion. It’s taken me far too long to get around to this. It takes an outstanding director to say a film of this quality wouldn’t be their best, but Bong Joon-ho is exactly that. Some of my favorite cinematography from recent years, impeccable performances, neat production design, fantastic pacing, camera work, editing, and an ending that left my mind completely blank. In my eyes, not only the one of, if not, THE best film from the 2010s, not only one of the most riveting films this century, but also one of the greatest films ever crafted.
2394. Yorum: Watching this makes me feel smart
2395. Yorum: So like objectively the best movie ever?
2396. Yorum: Films Watched in 2022 - Film 112
2398. Yorum: I read this just now since I hadn’t in a long time. Not much has changed, but I’ve stretched my pennies long enough to have held on another two years since writing that review. It’s honestly shocking to me. And only possible because the pennies I stretched were mostly my mom’s. The clock is still ticking tho, more than ever…
2399. Yorum: watching this with people who’ve never watched it before us truly an experience
2400. Yorum: The concept of the three-act structure has been a mainstay of the western film making tradition for ages, but how many acts do you think a Korean film usually has? I know Japanese films often eschew the three-act structure, but they tend to have fewer, maybe two acts. But Korean movies feel like they have seven or eight acts - or maybe that's just because they are the masters of the narrative king-hit. The storytelling version of someone coming up behind you and bashing you in the back of the head with a four-by-two. And then again half an hour later. And then a final kick in the ass for good measure right at the end.
2401. Yorum: Still a damn masterpiece. With every rewatch, it still feels like I’m watching it again for the first time. God I love this film so much.
2403. Yorum: I remember seeing this for the first time in theaters back in the middle of 2019 with my mom. I had no idea what the movie was about other than it was a Bong Joon Ho movie. Never in a million years would i have guessed this movie would blow up the way it did.
2404. Yorum: The “going downstairs” moment is the closest I’ll probably ever get to experiencing something like Psycho’s shower scene or “I am your father” completely unspoiled.
2406. Yorum: yall ever go to a crazy ass birthday party??
2407. Yorum: the moment Parasite won Best Picture was probably the last moment i was truly happy
2408. Yorum: Yeah yeah I finally saw it. So was it as good as everyone says? Did it deserve the Oscar?
2410. Yorum: i’m in love with that pizza delivery girl
2413. Yorum: This is the film that really made me wanna delve into foreign cinema as this is truly one of the most perfect films I have ever seen, and on rewatch it’s even better and I noticed more things. Deserves all the acclaim and more in my opinion.
2415. Yorum: The film might be described as a dark, satirical family adventure with heaps of political subtext, though really it is a genre-mashing oddity, a unique product from the mind of Bong Joon Ho. It is not perfect filmmaking—narratively it is at moments contrived, and towards the end things get a bit messy and overloaded—, but it doesn’t have to be perfect filmmaking to deserve its reputation, or to be considered a masterpiece (which it is). Joon Ho brings a fresh imagination to cinema, mixing human moments and psychological elements together and creating captivating juxtapositions, narrative scenarios that inspire awe in their inventiveness, and consistently producing shots that are visually brilliant and have a genuine wow factor. Parasite offers a striking, visually rich, sublimely cinematic experience that has captured more hearts across the world than the foreign language barrier has ever allowed before. It is a rare film that is both great cinema and a cultural moment in cinema.
2416. Yorum: bong joon-ho‘s mind is too powerful i’m never getting over this
2417. Yorum: there is something so personal about watching ki-jung hold that peach up in the sunlight <3
2419. Yorum: I just need to accept that this is the best movie ever made.
2420. Yorum: Holy shit.
2422. Yorum: Try to go to the webpage of this movie and then look at the Letterboxd logo carefully...
2423. Yorum: Thanks to this film doing so well at the Oscars, it had a second run at our local theater so I was able to catch it today. And wow, it definitely lives up to the hype surrounding it. While I didn’t absolutely love it, it’s certainly an amazing film. If you somehow haven’t seen it yet, I highly recommend seeking it out.
2426. Yorum: mom and dad both said “what the fuck” at least five times each in a different tone of voice
2427. Yorum: When Bong Joon Ho won best director it was one of the greatest things to happen in Oscars history.
2428. Yorum: How do you spell Oscar-winning masterpiece in Korean? Apparently, this is how:
2429. Yorum: The first half I was like “Oh this is a different pace for a Korean film,” and then the second half made me go “oh heck yea this is why Korean cinema rocks.” My friends and I watched this over “To All the Boys: PS I love You” for our Valentine’s party.
2432. Yorum: Watched the B&W in cinemas. 
2433. Yorum: *inserts gif of bong giggling at his oscar*
2434. Yorum: -It's a chimpanzee, right?
2435. Yorum: me @ parasite winning best picture amidst anti-east asian racism due to the current coronavirus outbreak: it’s so metaphorical! 
2436. Yorum: This truly is one of the greatest films of all time, and the Academy really did award the BEST film they nominated this year. This truly is a historical moment, and am so proud of everyone involved with this film. Parasite really shows how good cinema can be, and it’s utterly breathtaking.
2438. Yorum: parasite winning best picture makes up for eminem getting a standing ovation
2439. Yorum: Best Picture Catch-Up, Part 4
2440. Yorum: Dear Academy,
2441. Yorum: ~fuck yeah~
2442. Yorum: “All you have to do, is go up the stairs”.
2443. Yorum: “Once you overcome the 1-inch-tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films.” 
2445. Yorum: What I went to watch in 2020 - Film 6
2446. Yorum: I’ve always been a fan of Korean films (mainly revenge and horror) and this one is no exception. I went into it totally blind without knowing a thing about it other than that it was the new Korean movie with a lot of buzz, and I’m glad for that. 
2447. Yorum: Showed this to my family and they all went insane watching it and they all loved it. Mission: Successful.
2448. Yorum: After 6th watch I think I got all little details and all messages. I really love the climate change/rain message. He changes genres so smoothly and never bored me once on my 3rd watch in last week and a half. I just gotta say Bravo Bong!!!
2449. Yorum: Jessica. Only child. Illinois, Chicago.
2450. Yorum: This time I watched it in theatre with very annoying crowd. They laughed all the time but the reaction to second half of the movies was priceless (everyone was like wtf is happening). Oscars not nominating Kang-ho Song for best supporting actor is a disgrace.
2451. Yorum: Second viewing.
2452. Yorum: jesus fucking christ. I know I’m late, but if you’re one of the few people who hasn’t yet seen this masterpiece, go into it completely blind, and feel the world shift under you.
2453. Yorum: that a film can go from a line as wildly hilarious and surprising as “don’t fucking call me sis, you filthy bitch!” to one as heartbreakingly complex and poignant as “take care until then”, while hitting every single beat in the meantime.... i don’t know a better film
2454. Yorum: Is this overrated like some say? I don’t think so. Parasite is a phenomenal film. Such a brilliant examination of how we justify our actions and ultimately tear each other apart. Beautiful direction, immaculate editing, incredibly sharp dialogue, and highly memorable performances. This is a film I can tell will stay with me in the best way possible. I'll definitely be rewatching it many times in the future. This is the film of the year for me and one of the best of the decade. Absolutely loved it.
2455. Yorum: Heard so many good things and that it was a must see! Definitely right! What a brilliant masterpiece. A well thoughtout together piece by piece work of art. A mind fuck for sure, you have no idea what to expect and bam it keeps throwing surprises at you. A exceptional joyful thrill ride. I had so many theories but when it all came down to what was really going on, blew my mind. I loved it.
2456. Yorum: so metaphorical
2458. Yorum: all you’ll have to do... is walk up the stairs.
2459. Yorum: Parasite is a masterful film, featuring a tight script and direction from Bong Joon-ho. This dark dive into class never feels didactic; rather, it synthesizes the breezy caper its telling with the horrors that lurk under society's institution. Everyone is human despite how inhuman the upper class may be, and the deep empathy that follows the protagonists as they do truly despicable things makes this a journey well worth taking.
2460. Yorum: i hope i write a movie half as good as this one day holy fuck that was one of the best movies of the century
2461. Yorum: Proof that Cannes>Venice!
2462. Yorum: Aside from a tonally dissonant finale and an ending that leaves a few too many logistical questions, this absolutely lives up to the hype and immediately slots as one of 2019’s finest. Do NOT spend your hard earned cash on the insomnia cure that was “Doctor Sleep” and go see this instead. Four and a half stars.
2463. Yorum: Once in a while, there comes a film that defines the entire decade and Bong Joon-ho's Palme D'or winner Parasite is the perfect way to end this decade. An engrossing genre bender about class warfare. This film is PERFECT! 
2464. Yorum: I’m a monster and have seen this a third time. That’s enough for now — maybe again when it’s out on Blu-ray or something.
2465. Yorum: “there's no need for a plan. you can't go wrong with no plans. we don't need to make a plan for anything. it doesn't matter what will happen next.”
2466. Yorum: You either die trying to eat the rich or you live long enough to see yourself eat a trauma cake.
2467. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all."
2468. Yorum: watch it a second time yall i promise this is one of those movies that is a whole different experience when you’re familiar with the plot twists/climax
2469. Yorum: The most exciting feeling during a movie is having no idea what will happen next.
2472. Yorum: to be honest this film is such a damn landmark... its a masterpiece in every sense of the word, and i admittedly do throw that term around a lot in reference to films that i personally love but i just dont think there is any way someone can see this as any less masterful than it is. there is also no way in hell it can be topped as my favorite of the year; it snuck up on me and left me breathless.
2474. Yorum: Still so impressed by how effortless, emotional and truly surprising this is. They’re all feelings we don’t often experience at once when we go to the movies — but when we do, it’s hard to deny something special is going on.  Bong doesn’t treat them as mutually exclusive to one another either; his greatest magic trick is that they complement each other all too well, feeding off one another, not unlike a host and its parasite.
2475. Yorum: Start etching Parasite on that Best International Feature Film award for next year’s Oscars. My only real issue was it’s pacing but everything else that most of Film Twitter has been saying about this movie was as advertised. 
2476. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned."
2477. Yorum: Certainly will need a rewatch but what the fuck did I watch?, it was extremely immersive, and the acting was great, the cinematography was pretty great and interesting and the score was probably the best thing about the technical aspects, but this is one of the most unpredictable films I have seen, I never knew where it was going and it always kept me interested, and besides a few minor pacing issues, the film is expertly crafted, very well written and serves extremely impressive and engaging experience 
2479. Yorum: going into this not knowing what to expect was an EXPERIENCE and the best way... it went from simple to insane very quick and i loved that about it. there wasn’t a moment while watching where i wasn’t interested or entertained, and that’s exactly what a film like this should be
2480. Yorum: FUCKING IMMACULATE. so smart, tightly wound, and thoroughly unpredictable. i can’t count how many times i gasped and clutched at my chest in shock, and yet, every twist and turn is laden with meaning. it’s one of my favorite aspects of joon-ho’s films; the boldness that tinges them without any scene ever feeling inconsequential. shock-value unheard of, dialogue sharp as knives with the visuals to match. it’s literally perfect. nothing is going to top this for me in 2019 and i have absolutely no problem with that. bong joon-ho i owe you my life.
2481. Yorum: this is the only movie to ever exist, all other films are cancelled, yes i’m correct and no, i don’t take any criticism
2482. Yorum: about to change every single rating of every single movie i've ever rated to adjust to the fact that i have seen this MASTERPIECE HELLO???? CINEMA has arrived!!! THE CLIMAX!!! MY ANXIETYYYYY!!!!!!!! IM FUCKING LOSING IT BONG JOON HOOOOO MY GOD MY SCALPPPPP!!! full offence but i will literally never be watching a hollywood movie ever again
2484. Yorum: The reign of Cum Peach from "Call Me By Your Name (2017)" is over. Killer Peach from "Parasite (2019)" is the superior peach!
2485. Yorum: THE ENDIND WAS LIKE....
2487. Yorum: I hate this movie because it made me pee myself
2488. Yorum: I’m Very late to seeing this but it did not let down AT ALL WOW
2489. Yorum: Damn. This movie is absolute "Perfection." It's so deep, complex, and it blends Drama, Comedy, and Thriller together really well. And damn, everything about this movie is pure "Perfection." The Cinematography, The Writing, Acting, Drama, Visuals, Social Commentary, absolute "Perfection." Overall, Go watch this movie. It definitely deserves it's 6 Oscars. Nothing but "Perfection." MUST WATCH!
2490. Yorum: I remember watching this like a year ago but I don't really remember anything from it, I just remember it was good but not amazing. Really glad I watched it again cause Hoe Lee fuck, this was friggen amazing. Easy my favorite of 2019 now and one of my all time favorites.
2491. Yorum: "They say a ghost in the house brings wealth..."
2492. Yorum: Idk. I really think this film is the only one I’ve ever seen that I could say is perfect in every aspect. Like there isn’t a single crack or blemish in this thing. It’s not my #1 favorite film ever, but I can’t think of anything that’s really better on a technical level. It’s just so exciting and perfectly paced, I watched it with my dad this time and even he loved it. In fact I don’t know anyone who didn’t love it. There’s a reason this is in my top 20 films, it’s such a wonderful experience and I’d go so far as to say it’s the best film of the last decade, 
2493. Yorum: Tis movy ies badd. Itt dosnt hav minions orr norm of da north.
2494. Yorum: Ive been wanting to watch this for so long it’s not even funny. I have a rule about not giving films 5 stars on my first viewing because I try to keep that rating for films that are nearly perfect in my eyes or an all time favorite of mine. Once I watch this film again I will be able to decide if it’s worth that extra bump up to 5 stars. With that being said I thought this film was absolutely brilliant. It was hyped beyond belief and after the best picture win I figured it must be something special and oh boy is that true. Bong Joon-ho is a genius when it comes to directing and it’s very well acted to, but I think what really had me interested was the story involving the differences in class and also the mounding tension that was building throughout. This is obviously a film that you have to give your undivided attention to due to the fact that it’s in Korean, which is the aspect of it that I was the most worried about going into it. But I did not find it difficult at all to stay focused because this film is so engaging and I loved it till the last second. The climax is fantastic and the way that they built up to it was perfect. One thing I couldn’t stop thinking about during the whole film is how much I liked the name of the film. About half way through I realized why it was actually called that and I don’t think it could possibly fit any better. I also really like the movie poster because it’s so simple, but says a lot at the same time. I really just love everything about this movie and I’m happy to say it deserves all the praise it has gotten.
2495. Yorum: Watched with Anonymous Friend, Anonymous Friend and Voldemort(?).
2497. Yorum: What a deserved hype about the movie is after the Oscars. Or even before the Oscars here on letterboxd. 
2498. Yorum: I do really love this, maybe not quite as much as the majority, but the success this film has achieved both critically and commercially across all levels is inspiringly unprecedented. And when you have a scene as elementally impactful as the flood sequence...well then you deserve it all
2499. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho films in two words;
2500. Yorum: saw this on a date(?) with my roommate/newly budding crush and he wouldn’t stop saying “dude, this is so symbolic” every five minutes ANYWAYS SHIT WAS OFF THE RAILS THIS DESERVES LITERALLY EVERY OSCAR AVAILABLE
2501. Yorum: As it draws us in its motives of twists, turns, excitement and thrills, we are encouraged to peel back the surface, revealing the ugliness that sits beneath. The artifice that lingers within the characters and their dynamics in the narrative correlate with their country’s current state of affairs. Bong displays the human endurance of a family forced to create their own opportunities in order for them to stay afloat.
2503. Yorum: Perfect.
2504. Yorum: Knowing the trajectory does severely impact it and some things that seemed genius at first seem like flaws now. Still absolutely masterful in every technical aspect and darkly humorous in all the best ways.
2505. Yorum: 10+ - The ultimate commentary on class conflicts and struggles, Bong Joon-ho's Parasite does not confine to typical genre conventions, making the film even more thrilling and exciting and solidifying it as one of decade's best.
2506. Yorum: Do you ever get to that point where you start to get kind of sick of movies? You're watching so many, talking about them all the time with friends/co-workers, writing about them, and working within the film industry yourself (to a small extent) that you start to wonder do I even like movies anymore? I've been a bit in that rut lately, and this was the cure. It's a full blown, completely engaging masterpiece that reminded me why I love movies and what they can do and make me feel on an emotional, mental, and physical level.
2507. Yorum: this is the reason why I'm fucking scared of basements
2508. Yorum: my second time seeing this incredible film and i still can’t manage to find words to describe how the ending makes me feel.
2510. Yorum: It is done. Bong has created an all time classic, which not only ranks as his best film, but lies among the best Korean films of all time. This is genius, genius film-making. If anyone ever complains about contemporary cinema being unoriginal, just tell them to watch Parasite.
2511. Yorum: yes i'm 6 years late i regret putting this off for so long
2513. Yorum: I got to show Walker Parasite for the first time tonight and it was a pretty great experience. 
2514. Yorum: This is a fucking masterpiece!
2516. Yorum: Parasite is still one of best foreign movies that I ever saw and I doubt something will change about it in a near future .
2517. Yorum: Joker origin story
2518. Yorum: How does one write this?
2519. Yorum: literally the only movie ever
2520. Yorum: Another Bong hit.
2521. Yorum: backyard scene is gonna haunt me forever but jesus this was good
2523. Yorum: "Ki-woo, you know what kind of plan never fails? No plan at all. No plan. You know why? If you make a plan, life never works out that way."
2525. Yorum: i guess crazy rich asians took a dark turn..
2526. Yorum: Day 16 of watching films from @Soluko’s GREATEST OF ALL TIME LIST.
2527. Yorum: "They are rich but still nice"
2528. Yorum: I'm really late to review this film
2529. Yorum: I enjoyed this even more on the rewatch. It was fun watching it with my son, him experiencing it for the first time somehow knowing nothing about the film. He actually thought it was a creature feature 🤣 25 minutes in he paused it and asked if we were going to see the monster soon 🤭 He almost wanted to stop watching but hung in there and ended up loving it. 
2530. Yorum: It’s on Netflix PH. Go check it out for the hundredth time!
2533. Yorum: Still holds up incredibly well on a further rewatch that, if anything, just adds extra tension. But despite the obviously amazing social criticism the film presents (especially) during the second half, seldomly is a film as precise, fun and effective as Parasite is during the early 30-40 minutes of Kim Ki-woo and his family conning their way to those jobs.
2534. Yorum: Bong Joon Ho changed how the world sees non-American cinema with the cleverest picture from 2019. His sophomore masterpiece is a socioeconomic studio exploiting the best of South Korean cinema, playing with tints of comedy—as Bong has done before—in a drama rather turned into a thriller. 
2536. Yorum: starting 2022 off with the movie that got me into film, manifesting a good year !
2537. Yorum: watching parasite in the basement apartment of my friend’s parents’ house while they’re on vacation has an unsettling art-imitates-life quality 👀 pure visual poetry though!
2538. Yorum: i still think the scene where they’re all hiding under the table and park starts talking about how ki-taek smells is one of the most genius and devastating and subversively emotionally charged scenes in cinema history
2539. Yorum: I think it's the fourth time I watch Parasite and the impact is the same: an amazingly well crafted work of art that reaches levels rarely seen before in the history of moviemaking.
2540. Yorum: honestly took me way too long to watch this film, was so worth it in the end though. what a masterpiece, wow
2541. Yorum: when the dilf got stabbed by the other dilf ... poetic cinema
2542. Yorum: this was so good i loved it
2543. Yorum: Deserves every single bit of praise that it gets.
2544. Yorum: every rewatch of parasite is so different and i can’t put my finger on it but it blows my mind
2546. Yorum: I pride myself in knowing that I saw this movie in theaters before all the buzz and hype, without even knowing what the premise was, simply because I wanted to go see “that new Bong Joon-ho movie” as soon as possible.
2547. Yorum: A rare cinematic masterpiece deserving of all of its acclaim and accolades.
2549. Yorum: i refuse to believe there are people who don't like this film.. if you don't like this film then i can't trust you
2550. Yorum: Well, I fell into the hype trap with this one. It won Best Picture, so my expectations were sky high. I kept trying to jump one step ahead of it, but the twists never exceeded my imagination. It felt relatively tame. Not sure I'm interested in a rewatch either. I did enjoy it, but it wasn't my favorite of 2019.
2551. Yorum: 4th watch and finally got to show my mom. 
2552. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho's end of decade masterpiece, Parasite, is a timely, ruminative and cautionary tale about the dangers and pitfalls of social class. Like everyone else in the world, I adored this film for it's sudden tone shifts, it's incredible acting and beautiful cinematography. The star of it all is the masterful script Bong wrote with Han Jin-won.
2553. Yorum: Using my self quarantine time I finally got around to finishing my 2019 in Film edit. Check it out if you’re into that kind of thing
2554. Yorum: this movie sucks, could not even understand what they were saying, Some how it won a Oscar? nothing even happened until the last quarter, only got exiting once the sex scene starts, but the woman was way too old. too boring, dont watch. i would much rather watch the new fast and furious, at least something actually happens
2555. Yorum: Wow. Didn’t think I would love this film as much as I do. Bong Joon-ho deserved all of the oscars he won.
2556. Yorum: The way this movie shifts tones is so well done, and I honestly felt sad during this movie for the family. But they are so diabolical. Now I’m starting to get why it won best picture, some of the writing for this movie is just unbelievable. I also love the fact that the majority of this film was set in a really well designed house, it just adds to the intensity so well. Bong Joon Ho deserves his best director, the direction in which he took this movie was incredible. Well done Parasite...
2557. Yorum: bong joon-ho ranked
2558. Yorum: "Belt of trust"
2559. Yorum: yeah i had to watch it again for obvious reasons.. the hype around this masterpiece is truly justified
2562. Yorum: Black and white was so nice :-)
2563. Yorum: This was hella dope. 🔥
2564. Yorum: A poor family, the Kims, con their way into becoming the servants of a rich family, the Parks. But their easy life gets complicated when their deception is threatened with exposure. Bong Joon Ho’s masterpiece is as impeccably designed and structured as the Park’s dream home. Much like his previous works, Bong Joon Ho provides commentary on the current state of affairs at the time. His views on social and class divide have been a constant source of storytelling and motivation for his characters. Parasite is no different, the divide between the Kim family and the Parks is evident, as the Kim family slowly infect and infiltrate their more affluent hosts. Bong Joon Ho handles the tonal shifts with great skill although not subtle, the tonal shifts feel very natural as events seem to spiral out of control. Parasite begins as easily some of the most comedic work of his career as the Kim family hustle and con their way through existence as the narrative progresses as we stumble through a chain of events that can simply be described as opening Pandora’s box as it takes a dark and tragic turn. Meanwhile this is all held together with Bong Joon Ho’s masterful direction and his very charming and adaptable cast who are all on exquisite form. The very fact that there are no clear heroes nor villains is another master stoke as this is up to the viewer and their own ethics. It feels very much that all his earlier work has been building towards crafting this masterpiece, from his use of powerful imagery to creating very real and relatable characters. By navigating the labyrinth we are delving more into the mind of how Bong Joon Ho operates, by letting the story unfold we led to believe that Joon Ho is very clear on his stance about today’s society. Even though there is this huge class divide there are still human beings on each side and this is what he taps into; the humanity. Overall, Parasite deserves every award it has won and then some as this can simply be described as a masterpiece and a very high bar set for all filmmaking for the coming decade.
2565. Yorum: Knives Out was my favorite film I've seen in 2019. It was so masterfully crafted. An engaging modern murder mystery with extremely varied and lovable characters. I love it.
2566. Yorum: "We are paying you extra."
2567. Yorum: rewatched this with my dad and shamelessly sobbed in front of him. the ending never fails to make me cry... but tonight it hit harder than usual because this beautiful beautiful film finally got academy award recognition ❤️ absolutely so well deserved!!! i love my best picture winner!!!
2568. Yorum: You earned it my friend.
2569. Yorum: theater - third viewing
2570. Yorum: Best picture winner!! Or I’m gonna be killing myself tomorrow
2571. Yorum: Right, time to see what all the fuss is about. 
2572. Yorum: When film aficionado Dizzee Rascal said unto Bong Joon-Ho, quote, "Hey, turn the bass up," Bong Joon-Ho gleefully complied, to which Dizzee Rascal then responded, quote, "Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah."
2573. Yorum: This black and white thing fucking sucks
2575. Yorum: A parasite doesn’t infect a host overnight. It takes its time, slowly taking over an organism little by little. Likewise the film starts off slow as it introduces us to the characters and the world they inhabit. It’s a choice that pays off wonderfully by the end. Equal parts hilarious and diabolical, Parasite is a film about class warfare and is a clear critique of modern society. The hype is real.
2576. Yorum: An amazing film. Very suspenseful, funny, and challenging. Not only that but the film is shot beautifully and the actors are really good and believable. An absolute must-watch and a really good example of a foreign film.
2577. Yorum: still the best movie of 2019 100%
2579. Yorum: once you overcome the one inch barrier of subtitles you'll be introduced to so many more amazing films. - bong joon ho
2580. Yorum: As the wise Bong Joon-ho once said: once you overcome the one-inch tall barrier of subtitles, you will be introduced to so many more amazing films!
2581. Yorum: starting the new year right by watching this masterpiece again. i still have no words. it just gets better with every rewatch. parasite is that film. 
2583. Yorum: There’s nothing to be said that hasn’t been said already about this film. A goddamn masterpiece.
2584. Yorum: boy this was so fucked up, i'm speechless and terrified. this is probably the best film of the year, everything about this is perfect. i can't wait to see it at the oscars next year.
2585. Yorum: can’t wait for the hollywood elite to give this a standing ovation when this wins an oscar and then go home and ask their personal staff to make them a snack
2586. Yorum: Logging this almost two days late, my bad. It was pretty good though! Definitely a treat to watch having seen no trailers or anything of the sort beforehand.
2589. Yorum: I did what that Cannes title card that opened the film told me to do and certainly regarded it! Let’s just call it like it is and say I’m Parashook!
2590. Yorum: Woo boy! Well that sure is something, huh? Bong Joon-Ho is a master and this is my kind of satire. Eat the rich.
2591. Yorum: Needed to collect my thoughts for this one after seeing it 2 days ago. Bong Joon-Ho is an incredible director, melding motifs of gut wrenching drama, comedy, suspense, mystery, horror, he explores social and class struggles and the intrinsic darkness in everyone. In Parasite this is all as succinct as ever. What strikes me about this movie is how these revelations only became exciting to me long after, because the watching of the film itself is a rollicking journey, the best time I’ve had in a cinema in ages. It works as both. A story and tone that keeps surprising. On top of that, a beautiful looking film. Anticipatory direction, editing and staging that elevates the comically pointed allusions to class divide. The whole cast is great, able to pull off the slapstick comedy and depressing drama. This movie left me in awe. Bong Joon-Ho’s best in a while. Everyone should watch it.
2592. Yorum: this isn’t a film, this is a fìlmé
2593. Yorum: If you “Eat the Rich”....you’re still a Cannibal. Yet here we are still starving to death. So it goes in the chain of predation: whoever wins, humanity loses.
2594. Yorum: Park So-dam I am free next Thursday
2595. Yorum: In classic Bong Joon-ho fashion, every time you think you have a grip on where the movie is going, it takes a wild left turn and you plunge into hilarity and madness. Parasite is a phenomanal genre fluid film about family, class and survival. Everyone is kind of scummy, never sure who you can trust, all you can hope is that the characters can keep their head above water. There's so much haunting and moving imagery from both the ordinary to extraordinary. It’s a foreboding narrative of the gap in class and the comedically tragic cycle one can be trapped in.
2597. Yorum: I'd hate to just add on to the hype train and set this movie to unreachable standards for anyone who hasn't been able to hit the Bong yet.
2598. Yorum: Turns out it’s not a good script nor is it a great editing what makes a perfect picture. 
2599. Yorum: It is amazing how Bong Joon-ho manages to masterfully juggle multiple genres of film while creating a layered narrative with detailed metaphors and acute social commentary within an intriguing story that engrosses us until the end, raising the stakes with overwhelming tension and providing a number of hilarious and mind-boggling scenes.
2601. Yorum: Joel Coen has said that directing comes down to two words: "tone management". Every time I finish watching a Bong Joon-ho film, the most prominent thought on my mind was that there isn't a single director who can balance tone as efficiently as he does. Parasite, at least on first viewing, is in my estimation the finest work of the director's career to date. It certainly feels like a culmination of his canon, a mature work from a master who has been building to his magnum opus and finally achieved it. Mixing a comedy of manners with a commentary on class divide, a hauntingly dark, gruesome thriller, and an emotional drama about a poor family simply trying to survive together and achieve some kind of higher position in life, Parasite occupies so many spaces, and yet there isn't a single moment where the tone tilts off-balance.
2602. Yorum: it's not a horror movie but there's a specific scene that scared the crap out of me. that image will forever haunt my sleep.
2603. Yorum: That whole family probably has “$CAMMIN” license plates and honestly good for them.
2604. Yorum: Parasite is a consistently riveting film with great performances, an incredibly engaging story, and some very intense moments that genuinely had me holding my breath. It's incredibly unpredictable and it kept me on my toes for its entire runtime. My only issue is that the film is just a tad too long, and maybe a scene or two could've been a little tighter, but those are really just minor complaints in an overall fantastic film that is among the best I've seen all year.
2605. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho is not one for subtlety these days. His last two movies were just full of heavy-handedness that didn’t gel with me. For his latest, he returns from Hollywood to satirize South Korea’s ever-stratifying society. It’s not the freshest idea around, and the message is clear from the title alone. But what the director lacks in nuance, he makes up for in hysterical B-movie hijinks and pulpy pageantry. The film adeptly blends dark comedy with horror. And the characters, with their quirks and all, are so much fun. Near the end, however, the film kind of resorted to some stale genre mechanics. Regardless, I think no one can deny that this is Bong’s most interesting work since Mother.
2606. Yorum: Parasite reminds us that we are one-hundred percent in the golden age of Asian film and that director Bong Joon Ho, is a God amongst us all.
2607. Yorum: i love watching films with not knowing anything about it and this film is the exact reason why. during the first half i laughed, then i had to asked my friend if this film is a thriller, and it is, and i literally jumped off my seat during THAT sequence.
2608. Yorum: I loved this.
2610. Yorum: films that talk about social class always get me
2611. Yorum: Deserved a trailer in Kinds of kindness style
2612. Yorum: Wild how this subverts it's own genre and becomes a horror film halfway through.
2615. Yorum: my friends told me that this is the best movie in the world, I didn't believe. I saw and found out it's the best movie in the world
2616. Yorum: korean “hero lies about identity and goes to someone house” movie. 
2617. Yorum: This film is one of the best ever no doubt about it so much better on rewatch 
2618. Yorum: What if this movie started out as one thing in the first half but then became a completely different thing in the second half.
2619. Yorum: Parasite is one of the best films I’ve ever watched. I’ve been hearing non stop praise for this film since 2019 and knowing that it won best picture made me even more excited. This movie absolutely deserved best picture and was easily the best film of 2019. The script is literally brilliant in every way. The story is about a poor family that eventually starts stealing jobs from within a rich family to gain fast income together. It’s funny because you don’t like any characters in this movie as they are not good people. But I found myself enjoying the film so much because I knew things would get intense quickly. The acting from everyone was magnificent.
2620. Yorum: A shocking take, I know.
2621. Yorum: Friendly reminder that the slaughter and dispossession of Palestinians is not a two-sided “conflict,” but rather genocidal settler colonialism at work.
2622. Yorum: I drank a substantial amount of whiskey before this rewatch, but this viewing was still as tense as the first. 
2623. Yorum: Money makes people nice. 
2624. Yorum: Watching this with friends really lets you appreciate the comedy of this film.
2625. Yorum: Yeah still a 10
2627. Yorum: Borat better wa wa wee wa king in the castle
2628. Yorum: Parasite breaks every imaginable Asian stereotype and then some and I freaking love it! Beautifully outright insidious, melodic, captivatingly dark and humorous, downright diabolical and ingeniously twisted to the core. It’s the deepest form of inception implanted in your brain since the batshit of Gotham corruption hit the fan on a global mass media level. While I let your brain digest that. You can mark Parasite as Incomparable. I humbly bow down to Bong Joon-ho gods. 
2629. Yorum: genuinely speechless. but do i really have to say anything? everything you’ve heard about this film is true. i’m mad at myself for waiting this long to see it but i’m so glad i finally did. please, watch this if you haven’t. it’s a complete fucking masterpiece and i truthfully don’t know how something like this exists.
2630. Yorum: After a long, long, long wait, seeing everyone gush about Parasite on this here site, it has finally hit the British isles, and well worth the wait it certainly was. I was lucky enough to see this with a Q&A with director Bong Joon-ho and one of its stars, and frequent Bong collaborator, Song Kang-ho.
2632. Yorum: Un-Follow Me Now, This Is Gonna Be the Only Thing I Tweet About For The Next Week. Ive Wanted This For Years Fuck. What The Fuck.
2633. Yorum: song kang-ho has one of those faces that just makes you go, "yeah, class conflict will destroy our society as retribution for its injustices
2634. Yorum: Yes, it good. So effortlessly good, that I think it all seemed a bit *too* easy while watching, though thinking about it now there's very little to fault. As with Sorry To Bother You, was struck by the fact this features the rare twist that genuinely shakes up the film and challenges how you think you understand its world.
2635. Yorum: “I caught the bouquet of a bitch I’d never met.”
2636. Yorum: yeah.....im logging absolutely nothing else
2637. Yorum: It's quite good! Bong's best work this decade for sure. Takes a little while to get into high gear, and the epilogue is wholly unnecessary (one key advantage Burning has over this is that the former ends at the EXACT right spot it should—that and the sociopolitical commentary is much sharper), but fans of Bong's typical tone-hopping and genre-bending are in for a treat.
2638. Yorum: these kind of films are always so nerve-wracking for me. i watch them at a snail's pace, i pace around. this is not a demanding film is this regard -- there are others far more unbearable. but the tension nonetheless makes it hard to breathe, the possibility space nearly endless, the tangible infinite beyond each and every interaction. but most films, including this one, give me the tools towards relief. to reconcile the events in an appropriate space. these manufactured spaces with which to engage! this is no more subtle than snowpiercer or even US for that matter, but peele's second feature feels far more ambitious than this familial type of play. parasite is a film that asks you to engage with the obvious, a response to the responses to any notion of class consciousness. it's a plea for fantasies again, and the cycle repeats. a dream born out of grace, born out of violence. the past is dead, but story is still alive.
2640. Yorum: what is the best film of 2019 and why is it parasite
2641. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is a complete masterpiece, arguably a perfect film. It’s smart and painstakingly well thought out. It takes you through a story with tonal shifts that are subtle in that they don’t feel wrong or misplaced, but unequivocal when you realize what is happening - and even after the realization, you still don’t know what’s going to happen next. Emotionally dazzling, full of wit, and crowned with an overarching theme that left me in a stunned silence long after the credits finished rolling, Parasite has everything you could ask for in a great film, and then some. This one is gonna sit at the forefront of my mind longer than what I’d consider comfortably.
2642. Yorum: Had to watch this masterpiece again just to dab on the Americans.
2643. Yorum: Movie so good it makes you horny
2644. Yorum: “You can’t go wrong with no plans”.
2645. Yorum: five years of parasite. so many hollow “eat the rich” movies have followed but none come close to bong joon-ho. we are absolutely running up mickey 17 at the box office get ready!!
2646. Yorum: Omg what an amazing film. I don’t think I appreciated all the details that just add so much to this masterpiece the first time I watched this. From the beautiful colors in imagery to the characters of both families. An ending that just captivates you. Absolutely stunning work all around!
2647. Yorum: With a delicious black comedy edge, some surprising jolts of heartfelt emotion, and a violent throat punch when your least expecting it, Parasite is a movie that keeps you engaged and guessing.
2648. Yorum: For my project, I am looking at Korean cinema. I had originally planned on writing about Oldboy by the legendary director Park Chan-wook but whilst it is certainly an amazing piece of film which I did enjoy greatly, I also found it seriously disturbing.
2649. Yorum: WOW, THIS IS A MASTERPIECE
2651. Yorum: NUMBER #4: TOP FAVORITES IN 2024 - PARASITE
2653. Yorum: “It’s the same. They all smell the same”
2654. Yorum: The fact this story begins with the family struggling to get a wifi connection is brilliant.
2656. Yorum: Hadn't rewatched this since it was in theaters. Still a certified banger.
2657. Yorum: They like the word metaphorical in this movie.
2661. Yorum: Wow. I understand the hype and I’m now a follower of the great Bong Joon-Ho. This film really lives up to the Comedy/Thriller category it was put into. I read somewhere that at the exact half-way point of the movie, is when the shift in genre happens. It goes from fun to scary real quick. The movie looks great, the acting is good and we get to follow a fun and unique set of characters. My personal favorite part of Parasite is, of course, the ending. It’s pure chaos and I love that in movies. It’s a perfect way to send off our story.
2664. Yorum: "Take care until then. So long."
2666. Yorum: someone in my film class complained about having to watch this…RED FLAG
2667. Yorum: No plan is the best plan.
2668. Yorum: Beautiful story telling with an amazing plot. Parasite truly lived up to what I thought it was going to be. The one thing I found myself wishing about this film, was if the film capitalized on potential horror moments. However this does not change how good this film was, and what it accomplishes.
2669. Yorum: parasite is one of the most artistic films i have seen. so much admiration has been put into the making of this film by bong joon-ho. the themes of greed and class are explored in great lengths.
2670. Yorum: My 10th viewing 
2671. Yorum: You know me, I was very late to this party (not the party that happens in this film 👀) do I regret being late… yes I do, But you know what. It’s better late than never. 
2672. Yorum: need to do this at elon musks house fr
2673. Yorum: ok, yeah. i get it now.
2674. Yorum: “All you’ll have to do, is just walk up the stairs”
2675. Yorum: One of the best films of all time. There's a moment in this film where the genre flips so hard and Bong Joon Ho takes you on an emotional ride that you just can't be prepared for.
2679. Yorum: is it a chimpanzee?? 
2680. Yorum: Finally FINALLY watched this and took it off my “films I’m ashamed I haven’t seen yet” list (it’s the little things 🥰). With the summaries and reviews I had heard since this came out, I was completely surprised watching this. This didn’t include spoon-fed social commentary, like everyone made it seem? Fantastic film.
2681. Yorum: I watched 15 minutes of The Godfather, then I got bored so I decided to rewatch this masterpiece!
2682. Yorum: a hyper-stylized divide, playing wonderfully into the pulpy theatrics, feverishly pitching its anthem of social discontent down a spiral of ever-increasing intensities, and on purely academic grounds, the effect is definitely conveyed
2683. Yorum: I got a chance to see this in the cinema a couple of weeks before it was released here in Sweden, and I hadn’t actually seen it since then!
2684. Yorum: Ignorance is the greatest luxury. Parasite has got to be one of my favorite movie titles ever. I'd forgotten how depressing and disturbing this gets, too. It's really satisfying to catch smaller lines the second time around, like how Mr. Kim's last two jobs folded.
2685. Yorum: It’s been some time... life was so much better when this came out. I mis the time when Bong was all the hype.
2686. Yorum: “this is so metaphorical!”
2687. Yorum: My son watched it with me and won’t go to the basement alone anymore. Who’ll get my beer now??????
2688. Yorum: If you didn’t like this movie then it’s a you problem, not the film’s problem.
2689. Yorum: Sometimes even I think we should all chill about the thing we all love.... but noT TODAYYYY!
2690. Yorum: If I had all this I would be kinder.
2692. Yorum: Pretty sure in 50 years, assuming we haven’t been wiped off the planet by climate change or aliens, this will be required viewing for film students, and I’m really excited for all of them to experience it.
2693. Yorum: Holy fucking shit man nobody could have prepared me for this. This will stand the test of time.
2696. Yorum: Act like you own the place 
2697. Yorum: While technically proficient and well-acted, in the end the movie is a vile and nihilistic waste of time.
2698. Yorum: wow.... the impact is still intact. probably the most important movie i've seen these years, this is literally a cultural reset. bong joon-ho puted a way too-high standard to filmmaking since now on. the palme d'or and the four academy awards are in good hands.
2699. Yorum: i am soooo late i feel like everything’s been said before but i will still say that this movie deserved all the attention and awards it got.
2700. Yorum: I don’t know how... but this actually gets better after every watch.
2702. Yorum: Watched it for the third time...
2703. Yorum: In a couple of years I'll probably rewatch this and wonder what the heck I was thinking, rating this at "only" four stars. It's a case where I had a different set of expectations about what the story would be, and couldn't adjust on the fly as it became obvious that those expectations were wrong. I still had a good time with Parasite, but it was an unbalanced enjoyment as I waited for an element that never came.
2706. Yorum: It's official - I totally understand the hype behind Parasite. Wow! I can't wait to watch it all over again. I need to watch more of the cast and crew's work. Please, Hollywood, don't remake this!
2708. Yorum: Seriously, how does this movie keep getting better with every viewing?
2709. Yorum: "hell, if i had all this money, i'd be nice too."
2710. Yorum: 2019 Ranked: Here (In case you missed it)
2711. Yorum: wild.
2712. Yorum: The first time I watched this I loved it, but this time I was actually blown away. This movie is so good.
2713. Yorum: most of the audience collectively groaned when ki-woo and da-hye first awkwardly kissed, and i was just thinking, “i felt that”
2714. Yorum: dude fuck this movie was so tense it was PERFECT. incredible build, incredible crescendo, incredible toll on the viewer. if youre reading this, GO WATCH the Host YOU WILL NOT REGRET
2715. Yorum: in black and white
2716. Yorum: I don't want to say too much about Parasite simply because the twists and turns within it should be discovered with very little knowledge as one watches it for the first time.
2719. Yorum: I want Bong to drink all the alcohol he wants now. He deserves it.
2720. Yorum: 🗣🗣FOUR TIME ACADEMY AWARD WINNING PARASITE🗣🗣
2721. Yorum: HOLY FUCK!!!!!! IT WON!!!!!!!!
2722. Yorum: I loved every second of this film. The cinematography is on point! Such a beautiful film and such a great plot. A MUST SEE
2723. Yorum: I really love the Black & White version; "It's so great."
2724. Yorum: 2019: RANKED New No 1
2725. Yorum: The Peach scheme is by far the best scene because it both concludes & crescendos to the dark comedy part of the movie (and pretty much seals the Kim's fate) and then we get to the film's much darker layer. Moon-gwang responding to Chung-sook's "we're not needy" with "but WE'RE needy!" Somehow made me tear up watching this again. Maybe knowing about the violent and unsettling tragedy that unfolds after those lines are said made me emotional I guess. If this doesn't win Best Picture on Sunday, the academy really are just for locals.
2726. Yorum: everything i expected and so much more
2727. Yorum: It wasn’t until I watched it a second time that I realized how tightly written this script is. There is not a second or line wasted in this entire film. Every single shot has a purpose, every single edit is meaningful, and everything flows melliflously. 
2728. Yorum: this may not be my favourite of the decade (although close) it is undoubtedly the best.
2729. Yorum: After months of hearing nothing but good things about Parasite and having missed seeing it at the cinema, i finally picked up the Blu-Ray for the film. My first concern before watching it was, will all this hype the movie had built up ruin my experience. I'm happy to say and will respectfully admit that Parasite is pure cinema and an absolute masterpiece, it's movies like this that make me want to become a filmmaker. Bong Joon-ho has crafted a film that is nothing short of a cinematic achievement.
2731. Yorum: UK preview screening followed by Q&A with Director Bong Joon-Ho and leading actor Song Kang-Ho
2732. Yorum: Geez between this, Knives Out, Joker, Ready or Not, Hustlers, and Us... 2019 really was the year of Eat the Rich cinema.
2733. Yorum: Parasite is a work of art. It somehow broke into the spot of the number 1 highest rated film of all time on letterboxd. That alone makes it a phenomenon. But, Parasite is more than just the highest rated film on letterboxd, it’s a message. It’s a message to everyone. A message to the large corporations, a message to the small indie companies. It’s saying that even a film that is in a completely different language can be heard and understood by everyone. It has made 161.7 million dollars worldwide as of this moment which is, if you couldn’t tell, an insanely huge amount of money. This is a new moment in the world of filmmaking. It’s not 100 million dollar blockbuster cinematic universe superhero film, it’s an 11 million dollar foreign drama/comedy/thriller. It’s insane to me that this can get much traction at all. The film is fantastic and has well deserved attention. I’m just so happy a film this good is finally getting noticed by large amounts of people. Obviously, it deserves to win the title of Best Picture, but it’s probably not going to happen. Though, we can look forward to more love for great films from all different countries in the future.
2734. Yorum: Mom and I will be in the yard.
2735. Yorum: the fact that i’ve only just got to see this and it was STILL through an advanced screening is absolutely criminal. obviously awards shows don’t mean shit, but i really really want this to win big, just to shove it in the face of people who pigeonhole and restrict films and believe that ‘foreign language’ is a genre in itself. this film is running laps around all of you, and it’s not even out of breath
2738. Yorum: what a movie.
2739. Yorum: “It’s a chimpanzee, right?”
2740. Yorum: The rich look down on the poor, and the poor look down on the rich. We're all parasites, selfishly consuming one another in Bong Joon-ho's universe, the socioeconomic divide acting as a spectre of our mutually assured nihilistic annihilation.
2741. Yorum: “Wow, that’s so metaphorical”
2742. Yorum: Let’s be real, this deserves ALL the awards but we all know it won’t get it because lazy ass fuckers (the academy) can’t be bothered to read subtitles.
2744. Yorum: Everyone: How many times have you seen Parasite?
2746. Yorum: A really wonderful reminder that deodorant is one of civilization’s great boons.
2747. Yorum: I think Parasite's most potent emotional affect is the frequent reminder that the 'elite' are disgusted by the poor—any niceties are hallow and underlined with contempt. As we feel sympathy, they plug their noses. Joon-ho's filmography often examines class boundaries, but this is his most shifting and tense parable; surprises crawl from shadow and social-chess is played blindly on one side.
2749. Yorum: Yeah it’s the best film of the year, somehow beating at least 4 other masterpieces. I sound like a broken record, go see it, it’s even better than people say it is. Jaw dropping.
2750. Yorum: I FINALLY got to see Parasite after weeks of dodging any potential spoilers and it was incredible! The hype was so crazy, I thought there was no way it could live up to my high expectations, but it managed to blow me away. 
2751. Yorum: Just fucking go see it
2752. Yorum: Took some time to think and process this one because a LOT happens, but I can happily say this is now my #1 film of the year so far! I tried to think of literally one thing I didn’t like about the film and just couldn’t. This was masterfully done! I was genuinely surprised how the film transitioned from humor and lightheartedness to serious and dark. I really don’t want to say anymore about it because the less you know going in the better. Incredible.
2753. Yorum: If you want to know absolutely nothing going in, which I highly advise, then do not read this review.
2754. Yorum: Just cannot bring myself get on board with this. The formal precision, while helping this film to be technically sound, ends up really serving to make this film feel inauthentic at the end of the day. It just feels too clean. I never really found myself invested in the characters because of this. While I was supposed to be on the edge of my seat, emotionally sold on everything going on, all that I was feeling was indifference. I didn’t want to see this family do well, let alone care if they experienced hardship. While I was supposed to be finding the manipulative hijinks funny and entertaining, I was horrified. The crime did not justify the punishment at all here. I understand that the richer family was privileged, and completely unaware of those less fortunate’s harsh living conditions, but why would they be? When trying to lead a successful and joyful life, blissful ignorance seems like a perfect fit. They just didn’t really deserve to be taken advantage of. Overall, while PARASITE is not a bad film, I couldn’t help but be dissatisfied with how it turned out. In spite of all this though, I’d recommend that you check it out and decide for yourself how you feel, because the reception for this film has been fantastic from both critics and audiences alike. I’m obviously in the minority here, and it’s highly likely that this film will be enjoyed by a large amount of people for years to come. Suit yourselves.
2755. Yorum: Damn, this is so metaphorical.
2757. Yorum: got to rewatch this masterpiece in theaters, and it holds up just as much if not even more than the first viewing. believe the hype.
2758. Yorum: Can I say ... another hit from the Bong???
2760. Yorum: Bong at his most conniving, unconventional, and intellectually curious. In beautifully controlled chaos, Bong maneuvers the film to his desperate, incredibly dark pitch that gets to the emotional resentment boiling under the surface. A film that will undoubtedly stick with you long after the credits, that will leave you disturbed unlike anything you've ever experienced. It's cinema at it's finest, firing on all cylinders, telling an atmospheric fable on social class that is deeply impactful. At no point does it feel like the audience has a handle on where the story is going and that is gloriously unique storytelling that continually adapts. The best of Bong Joon-Ho's legendary filmography.
2761. Yorum: A masterpiece and one of the definitive theater experiences of 2019, a cinematic event that tempts, earns & revels in audience participation in its sheer ingenuity & bravado.
2762. Yorum: [Originally published on my blog]:
2763. Yorum: devastating for so many reasons but especially for my pea sized brain which may or may not have been playing fuck marry kill with the ensemble cast the duration of the runtime and was particularly dismayed when it ended up more like kill kill kill instead
2764. Yorum: “She’s rich... but still nice.”
2765. Yorum: letterboxd snipers are surrounding my house as we speak it was nice knowing y
2767. Yorum: Like his other films before Parasite.is another brilliant social satire-drama. Superb acting, lots of for the director typical funny, satirical moments and with the running time of 131 minutes it gets never boring!
2770. Yorum: Finally a 2019 movie that can make me say WOW, THIS WAS A FUCKING MASTERPIECE. It saved cinema.
2772. Yorum: This is the movie to watch if you're trying to win a breath holding contest.
2773. Yorum: Insane, magical filmmaking. I'd still say he's made better movies but this one should be right up there.
2776. Yorum: this is probably the first korean film i've ever seen and damn... this is a literal masterpiece
2777. Yorum: Bong Joon-Ho is a complete master of genre and tone I was borderline nauseous at so many points because of how swift and smooth his transitions between scenes of wild comedy and unbearable suspense were. FIRST SHOPLIFTERS, NOW PARASITE.......CRAZY POOR ASIANS STAY WINNING
2778. Yorum: One of the best Bongs (so like a 4-way tie for second honestly), though I still wish he would pull back a bit on the hairpin turns. That said, first 90 minutes or so of this? Probably his best movie (or maybe I need to rewatch Memories of Murder).
2779. Yorum: C'EST TROP UN FILM QUI FILME AAA IL PÈTE IL PÈTE J'HURLE
2780. Yorum: how have i only see this film one other time??? an actual masterpiece WOWWWW
2781. Yorum: Watched on the plane, with headphones that were god awful, but I find it really interesting how i seemingly have a different take on this movie every time i watch it. The undercooked class allegory still feels infantile and shallow as far as it’s effect goes, but i have a newfound respect for Bong’s efforts of making what boils down to a story of class consciousness so insanely palatable to such a wide audience. The film at times comes across as smug or disingenuous in a way for its vast oversimplification of those ideals, sort of losing its anarchist attitudes in spirit as the film goes on in favor of a didactic, traditional execution of its themes, though it’s clear that BJH is willingly making these concessions. Despite the ultimate shallowness, there is a ton of merit earned in attention to detail, and how easily specific elements in the movie lend themselves to analysis. Sure, it’s a bit gimmicky to make a film with this much of a metaphorical presence, especially when it all adds up to say nothing much new at all, but Bong’s juxtaposition is just fruitful enough to make things work, despite the innate broadness of the whole movie.
2783. Yorum: JESSICA, ONLY CHILD, ILLINOIS CHICAGO!! 🗣️
2784. Yorum: Oh my god. When the tone switches from being an extremely well acted and written dark comedy, to being an extremely well acted and written drama while still maintaining the same characters and vibe is something that’ll never cease to amaze me. And if you’re wondering if it’s that good and worth your time, the answer is yes. It’s that good. Also Park So-dam I’m free anytime gimme a call pls
2785. Yorum: ending the year with one of the best films ever made
2786. Yorum: Rewatching through all of my favorites #16 
2788. Yorum: happy 300 movies this year taking gf/bf applications now<3
2789. Yorum: As I sit in my basement apartment I put on PARASITE for the second time with my wife. She immediately is like hey that's like us (referring to how they have a basement apartment). I went to correct her by saying but were not poor.. Then it hit us both, while we not hard on life by any means I wouldn't consider how we live "rich" or "middle Class" at least not yet... I think that's what Parasite distills so perfectly. The searching for a way out. The creation of a "plan" that will save you and put you in a great situation. The truth of the matter unfortunately is. Money, fame, and fortune, have a lot to do with how, when, where, and who you were born to, or the opportunities you land yourself in. Obviously as someone who is definitely a capitalist I don't necessarily agree with every opinion within Parasite, but even a harden money loving man like myself can admit the system of capitalism has its flaws. The income inequality in the united states and around the world only seems to get worse. Not just on a monetary level but on a emotional one as well. Celebs like the Kim and Kanye are worshipped like Gods on the internet, and the culture of "stuff" is on the rise. Everyone now seems to have to have the latest shoes, car, rings, whatever it is in order to keep up with everyone else. Parasite exposes system. I could over the acting, cinematography, music, and editing but it's all so perfect. Anything I'd say on the subject would be retreading what hundreds of others have said much better. Parasite is a director at the height of his craft making a perfect stroke of genius. When I first watched the film, I remember giving it a 9 in my head. But upon re watch the emotional core hit me so hard I had to give it 10 out of 10.
2790. Yorum: I need to preface my review by saying that if aliens came down to Earth and asked for each year to be represented by a film, I would not disagree with 2020's pick being Parasite (UK release, don't @ me). However, looking at the film again, I still can't help feeling rather agnostic. A bit like that other recent Oscar winner The Shape of Water, I admire the technical craft of the film enormously, but will never be able to say I really love it. Especially on a second viewing - knowing when the twists and shocks were coming, I felt a shade of.... (voice turned to a hushed whisper) *disappointment*? Again, this may well be down to expectations, after feeling first time around that the film had been overpraised, but I did try my best to be objective. The plot ticks along with Swiss-watch regularity, and its absolute steel-constructed solidity is helped by handsome photography, which is enough to make the film look great but didn't particularly impress any images into my mind. Equally, while it is a film of symbols, I felt as many fell flat as landed with significance; with the rather irritating comment "it's so metaphorical" ringing in my ears, I don't feel that the film does enough to give the rock or the idea of Native Americans anything approaching feeling at any sub-surface level. Still a good time, a solidly enjoyable film and one of the most deserving Best Picture winners of late, but the best film of the year? It would barely make my top 10.
2791. Yorum: So, now I have seen "Parasite" as well.
2793. Yorum: i believe in parasite supremacy
2796. Yorum: “you know what kind of plan never fails? no plan. you know why? because if you make a plan, life never turns out that way.”
2797. Yorum: Give Bong Joon Ho the Nobel Peace Prize he deserves it,
2798. Yorum: I’m iffy on the ending but overall it slaps. The first two acts are fucking incredible and I could easily see it going up on rewatch. For now, Bong for best director 
2799. Yorum: So close to 5 stars, I've contemplated it many times and I have no trouble calling it one of the best films ever made but the very fact i'm contemplating it and not sure of it is why I've gone for the lower rating, maybe next time though.
2801. Yorum: very fun to watch, but bc i'm insufferable i don't think it was anti-capitalist enough to actually say what it was trying to say. bong joon-ho gets an infinite pass for making "memories of murder" though, and this is way better than most of what he's done since then.
2804. Yorum: Well shit, y'all weren't lying about this.
2805. Yorum: Full Podcast Here | Parasite Video Review
2806. Yorum: “You know what kind of plans never fail? No plans at all.”
2809. Yorum: What can be said about Joon Ho Bong, he is an incredible director who has directed some fantastic films over the years Okja, Snowpiercer, The Host, Memories Of Murder and a few others. Now we have Parasite that is completely different from his other movies, I’m not going to say too much about this movie since it is sort of hard to talk about without spoiling. So I’m just going to go over the basics, the performances by everyone Involved is really well done especially the main leads. They give incredibly realistic performances that later on do become pretty intense and thrilling, the writing is absolutly well done and definitely one of the biggest highlights of the movie. Everything about it was really believable and once again led to some fantastic scenes! The cinematography is absolutely incredible, it’s beautifully shot and adds a lot of detail in the setting. Speaking of which I absolutely love the setting, I thought it was so well done and actually really clever the setting compliments the story quite a bit which in the long run makes it all worth it! But what I think this movie masters in is how quickly it gets the viewer’s attention...from the first couple scenes you are already invested and keep wondering what’s going to happen next! That’s something a lot of movies as of late have done a very poor job at, so it was very refreshing to see a movie actually do that! The characters were all really done and well written, they felt very realistic and well felt like actual people. It also has this blend of comedy, drama thriller aspect which it definitely masters really well! The movie is incredibly thrilling especially the second and third act, overall this is a movie that I highly recommend watching! It took me awhile to review this because there was so much analyze but it’s all worth it at the end!!
2811. Yorum: Which party is truly the parasite here? Is it the family in poverty, weaseling their way into the perfect, sheltered lives of the wealthy? Or is it the rich, reaping the benefits of the system, residing within a perfect bubble as miles away there exists an inescapable ghetto? Parasite is obviously heavily influenced by the 1963 Japanese film “High and Low” (Akira Kurosawa), but brilliantly embraces a much more intimate, personal brutality that perfectly amplifies the argument first made in the original. There is no morally good, upstanding family here. Nor is there a totally malicious one. There is only a corrupt system, and a couple of families trying to look out for their own, which happens to be at the expense of the other. Have you ever gotten so far out onto the edge of your seat that you had to just sit on the floor??? This film will do that to you. Never before have I known such anxiety. This is a genius approach to this concept and just an extremely gripping, entertaining watch.    9/10
2813. Yorum: All because Min-hyuk went to college
2815. Yorum: Definitely deserved an oscar
2816. Yorum: I apologize for not giving this movie 5 stars on first watch
2818. Yorum: Way back when this was released, a friend of mine urged me to watch it. I didn’t until later when I was not talking to her anymore for no specific reason. I was blown away. I have now watched this multiple times, which is not something I do very often. Today, I watched it another time, and I kept thinking about her.
2819. Yorum: such an incredible movie. it gets you invested instantly and ramps up and up and never stops until the end. it is so riveting. the imagery with “crossing the line” is so so so fun to watch for!! also rewatching this makes the movie even better because i understood so many more of the jokes and references which made it so fun.
2820. Yorum: Great storytelling! One of my faves..
2822. Yorum: “of course, i love her… we’ll call it love. ”
2823. Yorum: i was so scared that this wasn't gonna be worth the hype
2824. Yorum: After a surprise car ride and Christmas, I finally got to see this, I was not disappointed.
2825. Yorum: tried making my parents class conscious
2826. Yorum: the person i watched this with berated me for not paying attention at the peach scene (you know who you are buddy)
2829. Yorum: Still has nothing on Johnny English Reborn (2011) but a masterpiece nonetheless
2830. Yorum: let’s be honest what I’ve watched recently just screams depression and college but gotta love me some parasite. have I ever told you that this is the greatest Oscar winning movie of all time? yes I have and I will do it again
2832. Yorum: With an insightful and searing exploration of human behavior, ‘Parasite’ is a masterfully crafted film that is a definite must watch.
2833. Yorum: I watched this with Lyn as she has never seen this masterpiece before. Her anxiety was at an all-time high once the secrets started to get revealed. Hell, she couldn't even finish her food.
2835. Yorum: What the hell is ram-don
2836. Yorum: Somehow, with the greatness of this film being constantly shoved down my throat, giving me the highest expectations ever going into a film, Parasite still was able to meet my expectations and more. 
2838. Yorum: Gave this 4.5 on first watch but we all knew that it's five stars.
2839. Yorum: watched this as bong joon ho intended tonight! an hour already in, on kast, streaming from soap2day, on my phone, in vertical mode. i think i reached peak cinephile
2840. Yorum: While I don't think this is the greatest movie ever made, there is no denying the unbelievably high quality here. The cinematography is fantastic, the acting is incredible, the story is inspired. The one thing that I think really pushes this one over the edge is the way it seamlessly blends genres. It's funny, heartfelt, dramatic, thrilling, bold. It's phenomenal film making and there is a reason why it's so highly regarded.
2842. Yorum: My life goal is to make a film this good
2843. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is a brilliant and insightful commentary on class and modern family dynamics; it’s a modern masterpiece. From start to finish, the film continually escalates situations to their highest dramatic potential, employing a masterful concept of tension, drama and appropriately-timed comedy. The film explores its themes with great depth, utilizing every character on-screen. What results is a visually rich, intelligent and unrelenting exploration of the divide between the working class and the rich and what extremes this divide can push the less fortunate.
2844. Yorum: Rating hasn’t changed.
2845. Yorum: One of the best movies of last year bong Jon ho directed this movie and it stars song kang ko, park so dam and Choi woo shik (correct me if I spelled that wrong.) This movie is a masterclass of a film being the first non English film to win best picture. My favorite aspect of the film is the blend of genres, one second you are laughing the next you are at the edge of your seat. It's a thriller, comedy, horror, suspense, and a satire on the current social issue of class divide. The words said by bong Jon ho about this movie are "it's a comedy without clowns and a tragedy without villans." Meaning it's somthing completely different and more grounded.
2846. Yorum: parasite winning best picture is the only good thing in 2020
2848. Yorum: Parasite is an excellent blend of multiple genres and succeeds in exploring those, while creating something entirely fresh within itself.
2849. Yorum: i know everyone says that art is subjective.... but parasite is objectively the best movie ever.
2851. Yorum: i want a tattoo for this 😗✌🏼
2852. Yorum: Absolutely this is already a solidified classic.
2853. Yorum: Sometimes you can say more with a whisper than a shout. This Best Picture winner is wildly inventive and ambitious. It's certainly entertaining, and what it has to say is certainly important. I want to be clear that I'm not, in total, criticizing a motion picture that does so many things so well. But it's definitely trying too hard, and its director is guilty of showing off. Perhaps it's understandable when a filmmaker of such copious talent shows off. But ultimately, that is not what the best films do.
2854. Yorum: the peach in call me by your name walked so parasites could run
2855. Yorum: Parasite is amazing. There isn’t really much else I can say at this point after finally getting to watch it. I’m sort of at a loss for words. This is incredible cinema.
2856. Yorum: It is now available on Hulu. Stream the Oscar Best Picture winner AND my favorite film of the decade!!!
2857. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho is a genius. I don't understand a word the characters are saying but also somehow understand everything they are saying at the same time. The screenplay, the twist and the ending are all great. One of the most interesting things is that the film gives you hints about the future the whole way through without you even realizing. The ending was so out of nowhere, but also great. Parasite isn't my favorite film of 2019, but I absolutely don't have any problems with it winning best picture.
2858. Yorum: "Take care until then."
2859. Yorum: It's so metaphorical
2861. Yorum: Un-Follow Me Now This Is Gonna Be The Only Thing I Tweet About For The Next Week. I’ve Wanted This For Years Fuck. What The Fuck.
2862. Yorum: “Ki-woo, do you know what kind of plan always works? No plan at all. No plan.”
2863. Yorum: can't believe i had the chance to watch my favorite Palme d'Or and
2864. Yorum: I had to watch this again after the oscars wins and let me just say, watching it when you already know where it’s going is a very different experience.
2865. Yorum: four time oscar awarded film ❤️
2866. Yorum: I went into this having no idea what the actual plot was supposed to be, and that is the way to do it.
2867. Yorum: i tricked my parents into seeing it because i genuinely thought they would like it even though i know they're skeptical about subbed non-english films and it turned out okay! they liked it but were mad they couldn't look away or nod out (????). I had a blast getting to see it on the big screen for the first time! I think this film is going to be in my brain forever, I love the small details, metaphors, comparisons. It's wonderful.
2868. Yorum: Parasite is finally out in UK cinemas, and it’s been well worth the wait. Brilliantly directed, Bong Joon-Ho blends together home invasion, social commentary and black humour, but it never feels too much or too complicated, flowing seamlessly between its various ‘genres’. Everything on screen is designed to instantly draw you into the story and understand these characters, and it keeps you on the edge of your seat, never knowing what twists are just around the corner. A terrific ensemble make every character feel memorable, relatable and sympathetic in their own way. They light up the screen when they’re on it, and play off of each other amazingly, bringing a chemistry that would have you swear you’re watching real families. There isn’t an aspect of this film that isn’t executed near perfectly, a truly impressive achievement, and yet further proof that if those who don’t watch films with subtitles are the ones missing out.
2869. Yorum: A remarkably efficient and realised exercise in storytelling. Taking a complex issue and packaging it in a way that achieves maximum audience reach. Class struggles manifested in two families coming together - highlighting difference and similarity.
2870. Yorum: When I first saw Get Out in theaters in 2017, my younger brother said "that was lit as fuck!" I feel pretty confident saying Parasite is this year's Get Out.
2871. Yorum: Comedy, horror, satire, tragedy, and social commentary all collide in one wild and brilliant movie.  I gave this 4.5 stars the first time but everything clicked this time.
2872. Yorum: showed it to a friend, his immediate response was "yo, capitalism cucked that whole family" which should definitely be the tagline for its oscar campaign
2874. Yorum: Parasite is one of those rare, perfect balancing acts of a film. The first half lulls you into the thought process that, “this movie is a really funny ‘scam the rich’ type movie”, and then pulls a complete 180 and makes you go, “this movie is a fantastic allegorical tragedy”. It’s Bong Joon Ho at his very finest, with an absolute whip smart script, perfect ensemble performances, and deeply rich symbolism. It’s rewarding cinema at it’s most true. 
2875. Yorum: I was trying to figure out how to start this review in a nice, artsy, proper reviewer fashion, but I realized if anyone if going to be reading these, they just want to hear my opinion. This isn't going in a paper, and I'm not trying to become a writer.
2876. Yorum: Such a mesmerizing story. Bong Joon Ho is at the top of his craft and I am here for it. Class warfare and comedy. You love to see it. Part black comedy and part Hitchcockian thriller with a splash of Fincher. Such a great time. It’s time we recognize the greatness of Kang-Ho Song as well, he should have been nominated. He should have been nominated for Memories of Murder too dammit! 
2877. Yorum: the second time around the events of the first quarter of the movie feel a little contrived. when you know what’s going to happen it all feels a little too coincidental. that’s not enough of a hit to take this down from 5 stars though, it’s still incredibly powerful and engrossing. i would say the last 3/4 of the movie hit even harder the second time. i teared up at the end this time around.
2878. Yorum: parasite / succession s1 finale double feature for tonight
2879. Yorum: A // 94 (4th rewatch)
2880. Yorum: watched this without seeing the trailer nor knowing what it is about and holy shit. 
2881. Yorum: I disliked the ending less this time around. Maybe I understood it more on this go.
2882. Yorum: "This is so metaphorical"
2883. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho aka the only man allowed to top me
2884. Yorum: Two viewings in and I've accepted that I just don't have very strong feelings about this either way. I don't find the critique particularly potent and I don't find the failings particularly egregious. The ending devalues everything before it but there's still something worthwhile in the idea that "nice rich people" are more sinister than any cartoonish businessman villain, so there's that. And yeah more or less agreed on the sentiment that even when a film seems to reject or look down on radical action it can still be claimed as a radical text, so even if Parasite is not sufficiently anti-capitalist the response viewers have had proves that probably doesn't matter. Most people I know seem to be pretty charged up by it so I guess Bong succeeded. The script is pretty funny and the hyper-pristine formalism is always perfectly motivated, especially when exploring the space of the house. idk it's entertaining enough but I can't seem to vibe with it the way so many others have. As is I think it's fine.
2885. Yorum: This was the film for the Odeon Screen Unseen and when the name was first revealed half the audience just said "yess" and it is one of my favourite cinema experiences of the year
2887. Yorum: . i knew absolutely nothing going into this and it only made it ten times better. there’s nothing left to say honestly it deserves all the praise it’s getting i love it and all the craziness preceded by the gentle yet effective social commentary. i’m pretty sure this demands several rewatches to properly be at ease with it but i just wanna give bong a big fat hug. song kang ho is the best actor of this generation.
2888. Yorum: This is the best movie of 2019, ooover.
2889. Yorum: Oh boy this was something else. So glad I was able to catch this on a big screen. Masterful all around. Parasite is both hilarious and messed up. Has multiple unexpected turns which I wish I predicted so I could act smart. The more I think about it, the more I seem to like it. I'm honestly just speechless. It's perfectly paced, wonderfully acted, fantastically written and gorgeously shot. It never loses its grip and manages to achieve everything it sets out to achieve and then some.
2890. Yorum: Watched this in the dendy lounge sipping some nice sparkling. Water and champagne and hors doeuvres. Whipping the guy that brought the snacks too slow. All in all a great experience.
2891. Yorum: i’ll never stop rewatching this probably. literally on a mission to show this to everyone i know
2892. Yorum: Fourth time’s a charm! God this movie is perfect
2893. Yorum: eat the rich
2894. Yorum: i am so grateful that movies exist and that bong joon ho makes them
2896. Yorum: I am more overwhelmed with what I have witnessed with Parasite than any more films this year.
2900. Yorum: Parasite's really damned good. On a purely craftsmanship level, it may be the best thing I've seen this year. The writing, acting, cinematography, etc. are all top-notch. There's a ton of humor and tension in this thing. It has a lot of interesting things to say about class disparity. It didn't move me in the way my favorite films of the year did, i.e. Waves and The Peanut Butter Falcon. Most if not all of its characters aren't especially likable. It's cold and unmistakably South Korean in its derivation while simultaneously being the singular voice of Bong Joon-ho. 4.75/5 stars.
2901. Yorum: Unsurprisingly, this is even better on a repeat viewing.
2902. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho makes his triumphant return to Korean cinema with Parasite, a socially conscious thriller, about two families on opposite sides of the class divide. The opening act has traces of last year’s Shoplifters, as well as the 1963 drama the Servant, but Parasite ultimately evolves in a very different direction than either of those two venerable points of comparison. An enthusiastic critical reception, as well as my own estimation of Bong as a storyteller, had set my expectations unfairly high, but Parasite cleared that hurdle effortlessly. This is my favorite film of the year so far, and my second favorite of Bong’s filmography, edged out only slightly by Mother.
2903. Yorum: Parasite is just amazing filmmaking - in terms of visuals and, particularly, in terms of its script. I didn't go into this with any kind of expectations and barely knew anything of the plot but I was blown away by how much I loved it. There's a lot going on here tonally but it never feels awkward in terms of the story's presentation. The oftentimes fun dark comedy aspects flow easily and naturally into a more serious narrative by the film's end. So so good.
2904. Yorum: Capitalism is the greatest threat of them all...
2905. Yorum: The fourth watch of Parasite and I'm still making new discoveries in the detailed nuances of Bong Joon-ho's masterpiece. Crafted to perfection. So "metaphorical." Believe the hype.
2906. Yorum: jessica_only_child_from_illinois_chicago_BASSBOOSTED_10_hour_loop.mp3
2907. Yorum: there's a shot of dvd spines and one of them has alfred hitchcock's face, which pretty much confirms EVERY thought I had leading up to that point. it's like a mix of notorious, shadow of a doubt, rear window, strangers on a train, rebecca, and a bit of psycho, all rolled into one. It's crazy knowing that my reaction walking out of the theatre is probably what people felt when they first saw those movies in the 40s-60s.
2908. Yorum: Any American film WISHES it could do this
2909. Yorum: Class divide is a popular topic in films, and it is a theme that director Bong Joon-ho has tackled before, in his sci-fi thriller Snowpiercer (2013). Unlike Snowpiercer, his new film Parasite (2019) eschews the fantastical setting and goes for something much more realistic and close to home.
2910. Yorum: A brilliant construction of obvious metaphors that conceal/reveal intractable horrors while slick staging and deft maneuvering among protagonists, genres and tones gradually bring the cruel inflexibility of class into unsettling, sharp focus. As such, a culmination of Bong's work since Memories of Murder, which refracted actual unsolved crimes through a prism of genre, its destabilizing bouts of surrealism and comedy evocative of the shifting ground beneath detectives and locals struggling to make sense of random, recurring savagery. What I wrote in my lboxd blurb of MoM, of Bong wisely underplaying his big honking visual metaphors, gets its fullest expression here. For all the thrilling execution of his second act, the sequence following the Kims back to their home in the pouring rain is the true masterstroke - a series of wide shots of them descending flooding streets and staircases, the polluted water already far ahead of them, backing up the drains and devastating their neighborhood, culminating in an overhead shot of an anonymous family drifting down the street clinging to a table like a life raft. (I was reminded of Tsai Ming-liang's Stray Dogs, a much more formally rigorous film about a family struggling to survive poverty in the crawlspaces of a metropolis.) With much of the film bifurcated between two living spaces, choosing this moment to trace the path from one down to the other serves as a widening of scope that situates the relatively small scale of Bong's drama within the larger urban landscape of Seoul (and in the shot of the displaced people packed into the temporary shelter of the gym, a reminder that the Kims are but one family among many in desperate circumstances) and his nimble narrative and formal manipulations within a rigid socioeconomic and geographic structure that engenders the rage and hopelessness that leads Parasite to its queasily lingering finale.
2911. Yorum: A Clash of (High) Classes
2913. Yorum: Glory to the bounteous wifi!
2915. Yorum: Still upset. I might never find something better than this film.
2917. Yorum: bong joon-ho is just taunting us with his talent at this point he's just like yeah you dumb stupid two dimensional mortals look at the beautiful and insane story world i can weave with my own fingers bet you can't imagine having this power
2920. Yorum: No Strings Attached: A Continuing List of Cherished Favorites
2921. Yorum: This shook me to my core. A tonal masterpiece. Bong's best film since Memories of Murder, and by far his most pessimistic outlook on society. More to come on a re-watch.
2922. Yorum: I'm speechless, like I actually gasped several times
2926. Yorum: Poverty's a bitch. For those who don't suffer they don't have idea how is it like to live, to be grateful, to cherish without being completely ignorant to others. Just because you have a lot of money doesn't mean you're behaviorally a perfect person, in complete contrast to what a certain character say in this.
2927. Yorum: What if we kissed in Mr Park's secret basement?
2928. Yorum: Korean movies always amaze me, and this one is fantastic! The acting, direction, cinematography, and background music were all top-notch. It may not be a horror movie, but i was on the edge of my seat the entire time.
2929. Yorum: Movie From Every Year of the Century Challenge: 2019
2931. Yorum: this is literally saltburn
2932. Yorum: surely the better movie in which peaches are a forbidden fruit
2933. Yorum: Honey, I Shrunk the Watchlist 2023 Challenge: 27 of 35
2935. Yorum: Everyone’s allowed to have their own opinion, but if you give this movie anything other than 5 stars you’re simply wrong
2936. Yorum: I thought this was an movie abouyt the zombie or aliens or something rename the movie or i will runs over my cat with the car
2937. Yorum: 🔙 The Killer (1989)
2939. Yorum: “You know what type of plan never fails?....
2940. Yorum: Was watching this with my mom and THAT scene popped up and now I lost tv privileges. Thanks a lot Bong Joon-Ho.
2941. Yorum: i'm just going to say it, film of the decade
2942. Yorum: watching this unfolds like a magic trick, even at my twelfth viewing, it holds up spectacularly
2943. Yorum: i had trouble walking out of the cinema so how do you expect me to write something coherent about this film? i'm not going to even try but i'll share my favourite scene: ALL OF THEM
2944. Yorum: third viewing, i’m floored. noticed so many things that i didn’t notice before, i cant believe i missed out on so much. it’s almost embarrassing really, i didn’t think my appreciation for this film could grow even more. probably my favourite detail was mrs. park telling chung-sook about the dog who requires a long leash - and the parallel - with kiwoo running around the basement on all fours with a long leash around his neck, literally.
2945. Yorum: Absolute transcendental filmmaking. Bong Joon Ho is a conductor of this orchestra plays out with such rhythm and melody. Genius.
2946. Yorum: I have so many thoughts running through my head right now and all I can say is THIS is why I love film.
2947. Yorum: If more people could overcome the one-inch tall barrier of subtitles maybe we would have eaten the rich by now.
2948. Yorum: I have nothing bad to say about this perfect film; this undulating piecé of art had so many aspects that were all intertwined. It’s so obvious, it’s so simple - two families need to survive, but survival means different things to them. I love the way it was so easy for the families to give into each other, feeding two already fiery furnaces until the seemingly secret balance was revealed to be a sinking mess. It was great to see how particular they were about essentially telling a story about people telling a story.
2949. Yorum: it’s just absolutely fucking excellent.
2953. Yorum: Yo.  With the 2010’s coming to an end, I can tell you that this is one of the best movies of the decade.  The hype is real.  I do not give out 5 stars on my first watch, but I was really tempted this time.
2955. Yorum: can’t really find the words to talk about this as i should but wow finally south korean cinema’s getting the recognition it deserves 
2956. Yorum: Like watching someone ski perfectly down the ramp, nail the jump exactly, then land face first in the snow. The ending becomes more irritatingly flawed with every repeat viewing.
2957. Yorum: i have no words for this besides masterpiece
2958. Yorum: The most significant takeaway from this for me is the unsettling sense that the cinematic prophecies about violent uprisings of the Poor against the Wealthy and Prejudiced are accumulating at an alarming rate — to the point that I feel I will live to see apocalyptic clashes and revolutions at a scale I haven't seen before.
2959. Yorum: She’s got a point. She’s an icon, she’s a legend...and she IS the moment.
2960. Yorum: Went into this almost entirely blind and, well, I'm blown away. After directing two Western oriented films, Bong Joon Ho returns to purely Korean language film-making to make a film that's easily in contention to be his very best yet. I would suggest going into it knowing as little as possible as it is a proper rollercoaster ride of emotions and not knowing what's coming next will keep you absolutely on edge 'til the very end.
2962. Yorum: Smart, edgy, funny, shocking, original, iconic, etc.
2963. Yorum: *heard few people in the theatre silently and secretly were clapping their hands when the credits rolled*
2966. Yorum: 10/10- Didn't really know what to expect going into this. I didn't know anything about the plot and I had never seen a Korean film until this one. Honestly I'm not disappointed in the slightest. It's an amazing movie that has just the right mix of different elements, whether that be the comedy, the drama, or the horror aspects of it. So many themes to leave you thinking, characters that feel genuine and dialogue that will make you get more and more invested the further you get into it. Once things take a crazy turn, it'll have you hooked until the end credits roll. I definitely will be checking out more Korean movies after this
2967. Yorum: i had to pick my jaw up off of the floor after the last 30 mins wow
2968. Yorum: this is what saltburn thinks it is
2971. Yorum: when that doorbell rang my heart stopped for a minute
2973. Yorum: Respect!
2974. Yorum: "Do you know what kind of plans never fail? Not planning, do you know why? Because life cannot be planned."
2975. Yorum: I hadn't seen this since 2020 for the Oscars. And while I loved it before, I'm not sure if I fully understood just how much of a masterpiece this film is. The seamless blend of numerous tones throughout the film is definitely one of Bong Joon-ho's strongest skills, and the ability to go from a 'Dirty Rotten Scoundrels'-esque family dramedy to a gory thriller while maintaining thematic and emotional consistency will never cease to amaze me. But on top of this, nearly every scene of this film is absolutely filled to the brim with remarkable artistic intent. The production design, performances, cinematography, music, composition, etc. all stood out to me much more on this watch. Makes me excited to watch this again, and as overstated as it may be, it's pretty clear that this is one of the best films ever made.
2976. Yorum: Oh man. You people weren’t lying about how good this movie is.
2978. Yorum: first of all, this is one of the most unique films I’ve watched in my life. almost every detail is symbolic in like 5 different ways I can’t even begin understand how you write something this nuanced.
2980. Yorum: Unlike the metaphorical rock, I’m not going to bash you over the head with themes and symbolism. This film is simply a masterpiece!
2983. Yorum: holy…fucking…shit.
2986. Yorum: Everyone seems to say how great this movie is. How it's such a thought provoking movie with fantastic acting, brilliant directing and great social commentary.
2989. Yorum: RESPECT.
2991. Yorum: Yea this movie still rocks. Get it. Rocks. I will be starting a patreon for exclusive reviews btw.
2992. Yorum: By far my worst watch of the film but that's just because my first 3 (maybe 4) were so special. Whenever I feel down, or have a lot on my mind, this is a film I know I can turn on and it'll take my mind off everything for 2 hours. Fucking love this movie
2994. Yorum: Had to check that this was still the masterpiece 2019 me thought it was. Can confirm.
2995. Yorum: This is still the best film of this century, of ones I've watched at least. If a better one is out there, then holy fuck it must be something else
2996. Yorum: my dad: wow that was wild. very original. did it win some awards?
2997. Yorum: Jessica low key valid as fuck. Mr Park seemed like stand up dude.
2998. Yorum: pretty indie, you might not have heard about it
2999. Yorum: Parasite is one great and great and great film.
3000. Yorum: Ki-woo was right, this is so metaphorical
3001. Yorum: Still very deserving of its Oscars sweep, with beautiful writing, cinematography, performances, and overall composition. I'll never not have a good time with this masterpiece.
3002. Yorum: the best movie in recent history, you know I’m right
3004. Yorum: each scene is so methodically thought out with subtle hints and minutiae. i kept wondering to myself how can this movie get even better only 30 minutes in. the plot builds up so perfectly and each sequence gets better than the last. the fact that so many creative, action-packed, and circumstantial moments take place in one house is insanely impressive.
3005. Yorum: The Parks house looks so freaking cozy oh my gosh
3006. Yorum: 2019 was such an incredible year for movies please bring me back
3007. Yorum: On my second watch I noticed Da-Song’s self portrait was the dude he saw that traumatized him.
3008. Yorum: So I watched the Black and White version of this film and I didn't enjoyed it as much as I would've liked. When I watched the film I realized that it felt different, even if it was beautiful, the movie felt dull without the colors. The reason for it was because the tone of the movie shifts entirely and not in a good way.
3009. Yorum: Hello old friend, it has been a while. I miss you 🥰🥰🥰
3010. Yorum: re-watched with my grandparents
3012. Yorum: Once a week, I shame my best friend for still not seeing this. I’m doing my due diligence.
3013. Yorum: i can’t believe it’s been 10 years since parasite won best picture
3014. Yorum: I don’t know how the hell I didn’t give this the full 5 stars on my first viewing. Masterpiece
3015. Yorum: oof the cabin fever is hitting too close to home
3017. Yorum: A film like I never seen before. I don’t know how you could come up with this. Bong Joon Ho is a master at storytelling. This film was definitely a crazy experience. I’m glad I avoided spoilers and trailers for this one because it made the movie experience even better. The Cast was phenomenal, So-Dam Park gave my favorite performance. She was absolutely brilliant and made the movie the strongest when she was on screen. This story was something, and the last 45 minutes were Holy Shit moments throughout the screen.
3018. Yorum: “That was good!” 
3019. Yorum: Anyone writing a review for this movie is deep down USELESS!. There isnt shittt you can add to how good this movie is , than its reputation does itself. Go review tigerking
3020. Yorum: watching this in 2140p and with my cousin is really an experience. the entire earth says thank you, best director winner bong joon-ho
3021. Yorum: perfection
3022. Yorum: Surprise, surprise, the best film of the year is the best film of the year. My goodness. I'm still reeling. There's nothing like coming out of the cinema and being in a state of joy and astonishment. It doesn't happen that often, but it did after I watched Parasite. Only my favourite films get 5 stars, and they're my favourites because I've discovered I love them so much after several viewings; Parasite has broken that barrier on first watch alone.
3023. Yorum: yes, yes and yes.
3024. Yorum: What a picture!
3025. Yorum: Parasite is an exceptional film from director Bong Joon-ho and will be remembered as, at the very least, the best foreign-language film of the decade. This is close to perfection for me, and would probably be if I didn't feel the last act felt a bit compacted as it hurtles towards the conclusion, which felt was a little too fantastical for the story being told. However, that is where the criticism ends.
3026. Yorum: Finally got the chance to rewatch this at a theater near me and fuck, this film is just as effective as it was the first time, arguably more so. I won't try to repeat what I basically said in my previous review, but really from the very first shot to the very last. Bong Joon Ho takes us on an emotionally gripping journey that feels less like individual scenes, but more like each act feels like a grand symphony that transition into each other effortlessly.
3027. Yorum: We’ve had a screener of this since September but I just watched it because I’m an asshole, anyway it’s good
3028. Yorum: This film is phenomenal and deserves to be seen in cinema to witness the greatness!
3030. Yorum: I watched this again to celebrate the Oscar win and liked it even more. Absolutely stunning movie, perfect structure, perfect acting, perfect set design, perfect climax, and it succeeds in expressing clear and important messages. I'm also so happy to see it take the Number 1 spot of the letterbox top 250. This might not be in my favorites list but I'm always waiting for the next classic to be released and this has definitely solidified itself as a classic for decades to come as well as put a stir in the movie ecosystem.
3031. Yorum: Watched the last like 80 minutes of this since I had to leave 4 times during Bad Boys for Life and didn’t want to disturb them anymore and I wanted to relive the end of Parasite again. I’m going again tomorrow night with my friend that hasn’t seen it before so wish me luck because if she doesn’t love it idk if we’ll be friends anymore :/
3032. Yorum: 6th viewing and still picking up so much detail in the story. Showed the movie to two close friends on Valentine’s Day and they already cannot wait to pick up on more detail with future viewings. Also had a good discussion on it afterwards. They have great taste and are great friends😊
3033. Yorum: So, I passed Valentine's Day watching Parasite at the cinema with my best friend. My ex philosophy teacher from high school was sitting near me.
3034. Yorum: bong joon ho can have my first born
3035. Yorum: happy valentine’s day to oscar winning director bong joon-ho and the cast and crew of oscar winning film parasite only
3038. Yorum: SHE CAME TO WIIIIIIN!!!!! SHE CAME TO WIIIIIIIIIIIIN!!!!!
3040. Yorum: don’t fucking call me sis, you filthy bitch!
3041. Yorum: [BLACK & WHITE]
3043. Yorum: Each act builds toward the next with unpredictable choices, and the result is like nothing I’ve seen.  There are shades of Hitchcock in Bong Joon Ho’s construction of this film, but there’s an aesthetic all his own in the mood and control he has over the audience experience.  Hitchcock loved to have a desired effect on his audience, and there is a similar regard here.  There’s something to the idea of not being able to sense what’s coming, especially when it’s delivered unconventionally.  
3044. Yorum: A great movie that definitely lives up to the hype. As others have said it is probably better to watch this without knowing anything and halfway through the film I still didn't know anything. It subverts your expectations and blends genres like comedy, thriller, and even horror, and does them all well. It's very well directed and acted and the film is also kind of sad and speaks to deeper themes about class. Now I must go change my laundry detergent and insert myself into a rich celebrity's life.
3045. Yorum: This is not the best movie of the decade.
3046. Yorum: I decided to rewatch this movie again. Not because of just Cho Yeo-jeong and Park So-Dam😩😍. but because the plot is great 😂😂.
3047. Yorum: my favorite part is hearing everyone in the theater whisper “oh my god” afterward
3048. Yorum: one of the most immaculately-crafted movies i’ve ever seen. and so metaphorical.
3049. Yorum: It only took months and months, but I finally saw Parasite, the movie that everyone has been talking about -- and now I see why it has started so many conversations, garnered numerous accolades, and ended up on a plethora of Best-of-2019 lists. It is hard to describe to those who have not seen it, and I am glad that people have kept the twists secretive. The less you know about it, the better. Boon Joon-Ho, who directed the fascinating dystopian English-language film Snowpiercer, has crafted a film about two vastly different Korean families whose lives collide in unexpected ways. Parasite is, at times, hilarious without being too silly, thrilling without being unbelievable, and heartbreaking without being corny. Writer-director Ho has called it a "tragicomedy," which seems about right; what starts as a satire about a lower class unemployed Korean family infiltrating an upper class family turns into something else entirely, and that's what make the film so engaging and brilliantly inventive. You never know what is going to happen, or when the tone will change drastically within minutes. The entire cast is excellent, with a standout performance by Song Kang-Ho as the well-meaning, caring father of the lower class family. Even when it veers away from the satirical to a more serious tone, Parasite never loses its focus on the enormous gaps in lifestyles and personalities of those in the lower and upper classes - no matter where you live.
3050. Yorum: Holy moly. Nobody was kidding around when they said this was one of if not the best picture of 2019. 
3051. Yorum: Parasite is a movie that I have wanted to see, and finally got around to it. I love the director a lot, and this might be one of his best works yet and also a good choice for my favorite movie of the year. The movie has a lot of things to say, many of which I won’t say here because the movie is best experienced knowing the least about it possible.
3052. Yorum: bong joon ho is coming for an Oscar and also title of my personal favourite film of 2019, and one of these is more meaningful and worthy than the other, and yes it’s the latter
3053. Yorum: Parasite is a full movie. Even some of my favorite films aren't full movies. And by full, I mean Parasite features a rainbow of emotions that you can expect to feel while watching this movie. It's a dramady, disguised as a thriller, disguised as a social commentary. It's extremely relevant worldwide, but more so in America and Korea. It's always fun to experience history firsthand and to watch a film you know will become a classic for the generations to come.
3054. Yorum: smoking a cig on the exploding toilet... a 2020 mood
3056. Yorum: Started the year off with a bang.
3057. Yorum: decent film but why are all y’all bowing down and worshipping it
3058. Yorum: Simultaniously the most fun and stressful film experience I've had all year. Can't think of a single thing about this that I didn't enjoy.
3059. Yorum: I enter the cinema from a society that obscures class, venerates wealth, villainizes poverty.
3061. Yorum: Fuck The Godfather.
3062. Yorum: Was originally going to make this entry just the TMZ headline of when Kevin Hart defended throwing a Cowboys and Indians party for his son, but we seem to be Having A Moment with this so here’s what I have to say. While many have already drawn parallels to this and Us, the discourse surrounding Parasite reminds me most of Get Out. The same initial wave of IMO deserved acclaim and success followed by thoughtful criticism of its politics/target audience which is then interpreted in the most bad faith possible by defenders as unquestionably stemming from some overblown sense of malicious intent etc.; all the while, I remain steadfast in my love for it because while I can see how anyone would mount a “too neo-lib/slick” argument, I think there’s immense worth in populist filmmaking along these lines and respectfully disagree with those who think otherwise. I also am pretty unbothered by the broad gestures it takes (especially near the end) cause I just don’t have the same allergy to didacticism a lot of you seem to have and will gladly accept Thesis Moments if they’re played logically and convincingly enough! Ok cool spiel over here’s the bullshit I was going to post in the first place have a nice day everyone amp.tmz.com/2018/11/28/kevin-hart-defends-son-birthday-party-cowboys-indians-racist-backlash/
3063. Yorum: This SEND button is like a missle launcher!
3064. Yorum: Lately I've been thinking a lot about a script writer's target audience. Specifically, the baseline of intelligence they take for granted. By 'intelligence' I mean both raw brain computing power but also knows the language of storytelling - i.e. wrote a dissertation on "Chekhov's gun."
3065. Yorum: Can I get a HOLY SHIT??
3066. Yorum: I’ve never heard anyone revere Illinois before this film
3067. Yorum: Two families interacting in surprising and unexpected ways.
3069. Yorum: It's always interesting to see movies like this in the theater, surrounded by other people reactions, when a director forces viewers to recognize that that joke they were laughing at a few minutes ago -- here, comments about the stench of certain people -- aren't so funny when you can't pretend they don't have class connotations. It's impossible to befriend the ruling class, who pit working class people against each other and make them believe that the rich are actually their saviors. At best, the ruling class will only ever let you be their dirty basement dwellers, necessary bodies for the upkeep of luxury, but best if not seen, heard, or (god forbid) smelled.
3070. Yorum: i couldn't have enjoyed that more
3071. Yorum: Even better the second time. And watching this with a full crowd in a theater this time was amazing. 
3072. Yorum: Less about class warfare, more about class survival: the poor fighting each other over the rich's scraps, while servitude is a role to play in front of the cameras. Bong Joon-ho is one of the most playful present-day filmmakers, and in Parasite he is at his most mischievous. I totally understand the "masterpiece" chants. And yet... Some people on this website are making interesting comparisons and contrasts with Jordan Peeles's Us, so let me add one of my own: situations, set-pieces, and the effects that Bong can create with them is what matters the most to him. Peele is more interested in his characters, they are more vivid – he never leaves a character, it's one of the reasons that Us often feels inflated. Meanwhile, Bong abandons the younger characters for the older ones (a big mistake, in my opinion) as soon as he loses interest in them, only returning when he needs them to bookend his picture.
3073. Yorum: Near perfect.
3074. Yorum: As pitch-perfect as a film can be, Bong Joon-Ho's Parasite seamlessly blends drama, thriller, comedy, horror and satire into a breathless, shape-shifting rollercoaster of a cinematic gem. Early frontrunner for best film of 2019.
3075. Yorum: Wow... Just Wow
3076. Yorum: parasite drew full-body physical reactions from me like almost no other film has. the excruciatingly tense and twisty story, especially that endless night in the house, were impossible to look away from, even as the deception and indulgence evolved from mischievous and hilarious to horrifically brutal and desperate. the sickening lengths that the lower class must go to for survival, and the frequent inability to let go of the idea of wealth (it’s so…metaphorical), are presented through different lenses - witty one minute, melancholy the next - that never clash. in conclusion…we’re getting bong joon-ho that oscar
3077. Yorum: What's the purpose of a film review really? To tell the reader if a movie is good? Parasite is. To help you decide if you should bother seeing it? You absolutely should. And then, finally, to lay out the premise of the plot, critique the artistic decisions of the cast and crew, and discuss what the film is revealing about modern day society, all without giving the film’s secrets away? Well, that’s a bit trickier a task when it comes to this film. Parasite is difficult enough to categorise and discuss with someone who’s already watched it, much less with people who haven’t yet seen it.
3078. Yorum: Watched at IFC Center in New York City
3079. Yorum: bong owns my whole ass. amazing. so funny! so sad! somehow fantastical?! beautiful cinematography--HE HAND-DRAWS THE STORYBOARDS HIMSELF! truly struck by that shot of the stairs in the rain, with the family going down, down, down, down. only thing missing for me was a scammer montage cut to a talking heads song, which would have made it the greatest film ever made. still, comes pretty close!
3080. Yorum: Director Bong Joon-ho (Snowpiercer) takes his work to the next level in Parasite, a film likely to be my favorite of 2019. It may even make my "best films of the 21st century" list!
3082. Yorum: this did to rich people what gone girl did to men and let me tell you its glorious
3083. Yorum: PLEASE don't watch the stupid leak. I can't imagine anyone watching this on a tiny ass laptop screen. 
3084. Yorum: Aristotle wrote that metaphors by analogy are most well-liked, and it’s not hard to see why through the case of Parasite. It’s a digestibly biting piece of class commentary in classic Bong Joon-Ho fashion. The film follows the broke and unemployed Kim family as they infest their way into working for the affluent Park family. The delectable pleasure of a scam turns sour once a seedier class below the Kim's (literally) is revealed and gnaws through their ruse.
3085. Yorum: one of the best films of the year, without a doubt
3087. Yorum: WAT. WOW. parasite is filled with layers and layers of complexity and still remains to be entirely fluid and fit right in together. i just hope this comes out in theaters near me so i have a chance to watch it on the big screen WHAAAT
3088. Yorum: Still amazed by how good Parasite is.
3089. Yorum: Amazing storytelling coupled with beautiful direction. I found a lot of the acting a bit so-so and one or two characters ever so slightly uninteresting...but the way the plot unfolds and the almost unbearable tension was absolutely masterful. I can definitely understand the hype - superb.
3090. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho conjures yet another great film filled to the brim with social critique and reflection. As with much of Snowpiercer, this film’s body takes on social division and inequality, and puts the spotlight on the attitude of those from the top towards those at the bottom and vice versa.
3091. Yorum: I don't think any movie has messed me up this much in a very long time. Once again, Joon-ho Bong proves himself worthy of his reputation as one of the most talented contemporary filmmakers working - in South Korea, and worldwide as well. With Parasite, he just might have jumped up to the very top of my list of favorites, and after I have previously only seen three of his films (Okja, Memories of Murder and Snowpiercer), there is now no way anymore I am going to postpone catching up on his other films any longer.
3092. Yorum: Devious and ingenious dramedy that coils and locks into place seemlessy. It’s after the springloaded climax where the film loses a bit of balance. Still, can’t think of a film as stylish, hilarious, and gorgeously shot from this year.
3093. Yorum: someone hit me in the head with a rock cos i wanna watch this for the fourth time and be amazed again
3095. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho’s most entertaining film to date, blending family drama with dark comedy. As the momentum picks up for the third act it becomes a heart pounding thriller with high stakes. The film also works as an intricate social commentary piece, exploring the harmony and divide between the low and high social classes in South Korean society through paralleling both families. Bong Joon-ho does a great job in creating an ambitious allegory depicting various social pressures without blaming a particular group in society, but rather cleverly blurs the lines between right and wrong through flawed-yet relatable characters. While I very much enjoyed Parasite and highly recommend it, some of the plot choices in the epilogue felt out of place and impacted the film’s momentum for me.
3096. Yorum: i don’t think i’ve ever seen anything like this. 
3098. Yorum: a masterpiece. it's a tapestry of different genres, woven together to create a sharply coherent image, which in other hands could have been a jumbled mess of colour. the opening scenes work so well as an intriguing yet homely comedy that the film doesn't really need to give anything more - but man, does it give more. every scene is a masterclass in construction. it's unpredictable but not messy, clever but not obnoxious, and funny, but by the end, not fun. quite simply a work of genius and the best film of the year so far.
3099. Yorum: Going in, I knew the last 20 minutes would take a turn, but HOLY SHIT, I did not expect that!
3100. Yorum: This is a sharp look at class and psychology, peeling back layers like it’s dissecting a fractured mind. For me, the Park family’s house says it all. The upper levels are all about appearances—wealth and aspiration—while the basement is where the uncomfortable truths hide. It’s like Freud’s model of the psyche: the conscious mind on display above and the repressed trauma shoved below. When that basement comes to the surface, it’s like watching years of tension and denial break through, and it unravels everything.
3101. Yorum: it shouldn't have taken the academy to make a foreign film the best picture winner this long
3102. Yorum: Wow this is just simply a masterpiece.
3103. Yorum: Guys. I was recently recommended this movie by a user named Guymera. I had always heard that this was a well reviewed and respected movie but I had no idea what was awaiting me. Honestly I am quite speechless. This made my stomach hurt but in the fun way like getting on a rollercoaster. There was also a part towards the middle that I thought my chest was going to explode. What started as a tense and calculated scheme spiraled into chaos that could never repair what was lost, all handled and shot with such beauty and care. I also like how it is mean to rich people and the upper class. Not to be crude, but rich people are a**holes who often spit on the lower class so I did not feel bad for too much of what they got, even if they weren't the worst people. This movie is wild guys. Guymera thank you for showing me this instant classic. I can see myself watching this for years to come and I can easily recommend this to many. I have a feeling that America will remake this one day and it will be the worst movie I have ever seen. But at least we have this. Cherish the little things.
3104. Yorum: Collection: Academy Award for Best Picture
3105. Yorum: Added a banger to Netflix
3106. Yorum: eating the rich in a way that messes with their heads and slowly destroys their lives
3108. Yorum: Good god this is a good movie
3109. Yorum: Stfu I know I’m late. Yes it was absolutely amazing.
3110. Yorum: first rewatch in years ;)
3111. Yorum: Parasite will always have a special place in my heart, not only because it is a masterpiece but also because it opened the doors to international films on a bigger stage. It winning that Oscar was indeed one of the most significant cinematic moments, it made the world cinema to recognize many more regional works. It is that one classic film which revolutionized the cinematic experience for whole film industries and hence the recent growth and popularity of Regional cinemas across the common audience!
3113. Yorum: I love rewatching this with people who've never seen it before. There's always that moment where they're first descending into the basement, and there's that palpable feeling of "what the fuck kind of movie are we in right now." This had the feeling of being an instant classic when it came out, and three years later that has held strong. Whenever the seemingly hopeless state of modern moviemaking threatens to overwhelm you, it's important to remember that movies like this can still happen.
3114. Yorum: Ngl that party scene reminded me of that one video where that one guy just goes around slapping people.
3116. Yorum: No long review today
3117. Yorum: Some months ago, I wrote in my review for Bong Joon-Ho's masterpiece Memories of Murder (as well as in my original review for this film) that I felt that there was something that I was missing in Parasite after my first viewing back when it was released in theaters, and that this was something that I had experienced with other critically-acclaimed South Korean films in the past. I recognized, of course, that this was a tremendously well-made film by a tremendously talented filmmaker, but highest-rated film on Letterboxd (at the time)? First foreign-language Best Picture winner (to be)? I just wasn't sure that I got the hype.
3118. Yorum: peach
3119. Yorum: I hope Hollywood NEVER remakes this.
3122. Yorum: You know a movie is magical when it makes you still want to pull your hair out on a third or fourth watch.
3123. Yorum: pair of sight
3124. Yorum: My mom's reaction to the film: “It’s horrible and makes no sense.”
3125. Yorum: This that good good shit. 🍑🎂
3126. Yorum: This film blew my socks off and I have nothing to say that hasn't already been said by far smarter people than me.
3127. Yorum: Geography Classes
3129. Yorum: Gattdamn. The fuck is this doing at SEED #1 on Letterboxd's Top 250 movies???
3130. Yorum: 2019 movie viewings, #117. I know it sounds a bit racist at first to say that no one does horror quite like the South Koreans; but I mean that less as a statement about South Koreans themselves and more a cultural reflection of the current state of the South Korean film industry, which for some reason has embraced the idea of horror as a harbinger of social change way more than most other nations' film industries (especially the US, which despite its recent run of indie hits is still mostly defined by the franchise-friendly '80s paradigm of "Holy Fuck, It's Gonna Kill Us All!"). Bong Joon Ho is a great example of what I'm talking about, a director who has always inserted at least a dollop of political commentary into his genre flicks, most recently in his otherwise cartoonish "the rich fight the poor in a luxury supertrain" actioner Snowpiercer. But in his newest, the universally praised Parasite (which last week officially became the highest rated film in the history of Letterboxd), Bong both ups the ante of his political activism, and dials down his message into a subtle and complex milieu that defies easy explanation, easily the main reason that this film seems to be resonating with such a larger part of the general population than psychological horror movies usually do.
3131. Yorum: Parasite is definitely worthy of all the praise it's getting, it's simply a complete movie, perfect in almost every aspect. It takes you to an intense emotional ride that perpasses several different genres and tones with a masterful domain of the cinematic form by director Bong Joon-Ho. It's hard for a film taking so many tonal shifts to really work like this, it's a risk that is usually the downfall of many promising productions, yet in here it works perfectly and that's specially why it hits so hard. The director's previous work, 'Okja', for exemple, also takes risks and it really left something to be desired and divided opinions.
3132. Yorum: I don’t typically like to get super personal with what I write here on Letterboxd but I think I should start off this review with a little something. I’ve been employed by Regal Cinemas as a bartender for the better part of two years and as of this week that time has officially come to an end. Working at Regal is the reason I even found out about Letterboxd in the first place, it was a job where I got to talk about movies all day and make friends with other movie buffs and without it I wouldn’t be here writing this review. It was also, incidentally, a job that offered me some free movie tickets. Parasite marks the 65th and final free movie I got to see as a Regal employee and I felt that fact deserved noting.
3134. Yorum: this movie has a scene identical to the ending of jackass 3d dir. jeff tremaine
3135. Yorum: So maybe you guys remember that I saw Parasite a few months ago on a screener. I was very warm to the film, giving it an initial 4/5 star rating saying it was a great film with an excellent screenplay. Yet, my lackluster review did not give Parasite the credit it deserved. I also wrote in that review that I would see the movie again on the big screen because it felt like a movie that demanded to be seen on a big screen in a darkened theatre. Oh boy was I right on that one as well- Parasite just absolutely transfixes its audience when its played in a theatre. I haven't been this memorized by a film since maybe seeing Roma in theaters.
3137. Yorum: I forgot something in the basement under the kitchen. 
3138. Yorum: yes i watched it again cause im a crackhead and i need to show it to everyone best movie of the millennium baby come along and take a hit from the bong
3139. Yorum: A movie that is easily one of the best films of the year that should be seen if possible! HOT DAMN, that ending played me for a fool.
3140. Yorum: It’s the best Korean film I have ever watch it’s very funny,mystery and have a very great performance of cast in the movie. Probably it is the best film of the year.
3143. Yorum: This is probably the best second half of a film I have seen this year, in fact I am struggling because let’s be honest the first act of Endgame was not the best but neither was this first but they most saved there movie by having some of the best 2nd and 3rd acts this year but for 2 completely different reasons. While Endgame’s 2nd act was throwbacks and the 3rd act was fanservice galore. Parasite that lost its shit and went completely bonkers half way through the film, it was fantastic I would go so far to say the second half of this film is masterful.
3144. Yorum: I've struggled to figure out how to talk about this movie for 5 days for two reasons.
3145. Yorum: Well fuck I guess I'm in the #bonghive now.
3148. Yorum: idk what is to say about this film, its all been told and documented.
3150. Yorum: Does anyone else put off watching critically acclaimed films because they're scared they won't live up to expectations? Well Parasite managed to exceed all the worthy hype and more. I somehow went into this five-year-old movie spoiler-free which made for a great watch, the second half of the film is so stressful. Bong Joon-ho's direction is amazing and the films cinematography is gorgeous. The entire cast is phenomenal but I really enjoyed Song Kang-ho and Cho Yeo-jeong's performances. The theme of class division is nicely mixed with dark comedy and surprising twists. Parasite is the peak of 2010s cinema and will continue to be one of the most influential foreign movies.
3152. Yorum: fuck big houses.
3153. Yorum: I’d kill someone too if they say I stink
3154. Yorum: one of the funnest things on Earth is watching this with friends who’ve never seen it before and just enjoying their reactions to where it goes as much as the actual movie
3155. Yorum: i know some people that started to watch this, then quit halfway through. let’s have a prayer for them tonight 🙏 🥺
3156. Yorum: not at all what i was expecting it to be but it was so good
3157. Yorum: 2019 was such a peak year for movies, but i can understand why it won best picture among other incredible movies
3158. Yorum: A truly perfect movie. Those last few minutes hit so hard and are brilliant. So happy this exists and continues to delight on every rewatch
3161. Yorum: It's so metaphorical
3164. Yorum: Just weeks before the world shut down in 2020, the school I was teaching at had an on-campus showing of Parasite. I had two courses at that time, one a regular composition class and the other being an intro to creative writing. I told both groups of students that I’d give extra credit to anyone who’d come to the screening. Quite a few of my creative writing students showed up as most of that class was one big friend group and all terminally online and already aware of the movie. From comp, I had a number of minimal effort frat guys, many of them confessing that this was their first foreign film. The two groups could not be more different.
3165. Yorum: song kang-ho practicing acting is the funniest (and weirdest) thing i’ve ever seen
3166. Yorum: This was a very entertaining watch that’s for sure!! Husband and I have been meaning to watch this movie for a while now and finally got to watch it. I’m glad this lived up to the hype!
3167. Yorum: “You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned. Look around you. Did you think these people made a plan to sleep in the sports hall with you? But here we are now, sleeping together on the floor. So, there's no need for a plan. You can't go wrong with no plans. We don't need to make a plan for anything. It doesn't matter what will happen next.”
3168. Yorum: I fucking love Bong Joon-Ho. 
3169. Yorum: "What the hell is ram-don?"
3171. Yorum: Before I start off this review I just wanted to say a few words about why I chose to see it. Seeing this film for the first time in a small theater, months before it came out with my little brother at my side as we were thrilled, tense, laughing, and almost having a heart attack is one of the best experiences I've ever had, I'll never forget that day. What a masterpiece. Since that day, I haven't seen the film, not because I don't want to, but because I am a bit intimidated by it by just how good it is. Sitting down and watching it is a marvelous experience that shall be cherished only so often, and all of the magic and awe-inspiring frames this film has still hit and still amaze just as much. However, today is my 18th birthday, and I must say it is quite a special birthday for me since this is the year that I basically plan ahead and start my journey to be in the cinematic industry. So choosing this film filled with so much perfection, which every second inspires me and drives me to want to inspire others and dedicate my life to it was just the right one.
3173. Yorum: SKUTSSIACCE (South Koreans up to shady shit in a class-conscious environment) is my new favorite entertainment genre.
3175. Yorum: An absolute masterpiece. I certainly would not be the first person to talk about how incredible this film is. It's direction, cinematography, editing, writing, and acting are all spectacular. Rather than go into all of this, I want to talk about what I think the titular "Parasite" is.
3176. Yorum: What the fuck
3178. Yorum: Best film of the year!
3179. Yorum: “you know what kind of plan never fails? no plan. no plan at all. you know why? because life cannot be planned”.
3180. Yorum: i literally was not on earth for the past 2 hours
3181. Yorum: Jessica, only child, Illinois, Chicago. Classmate Kim Jin-mo, he's your cousin
3183. Yorum: Yeah no shit this still holds up
3184. Yorum: watched this with my family and let me tell you, they were SHOCKED. i will never get tired of watching / recommending this movie and over explaining every little detail to anyone who watches this with me!
3186. Yorum: There seriously is not a thing wrong with this film. I genuinely tried to see if there was a flaw, and I do not think anything is bad; everything fits and works to fit a cause within the film. It's use of setup and payoff that follow each other back-to-back mixed with one of the most effective uses of midpoints that I have seen in a film really makes this debatably one of the best films of the past decade, and one of the best of all time.
3187. Yorum: This movie is so fucking clever its annoying
3188. Yorum: No better way to start New Year than watching this masterpiece.
3189. Yorum: I had a feeling that closing out 2020 with this was the right idea even though I’ve been wanting to watch it every damn day. Insanely appropriate for this year that I’m happy to be leaving behind. Maybe none too subtle but it speaks volumes that a rainstorm that ruins rich people’s canping trips is also literally destroying the homes of the poor. And attempting to have just one iota of “the good life” puts us broke people in the most dangerous positions we’ve ever imagined, simply for wanting to live comfortably. God, everything is so fucked. Goodbye, 2020. Not a soul will miss you.
3190. Yorum: Going into this I never knew what it was about,  and I think that was the way to go with this film as not only is it a great film, but it completely surprises you at the intensity  it ends up building.  This is superbly acted, hilarious at times and shockingly brutal. 
3192. Yorum: parasite is just a marvel for every cinema fan. it's one of those movies that appear once every 20 or 30 years. it's just so good! the amount of originality is enormous and the level of this writing is just something you don't see every day. everything, literally everything, pays off in the end. there are subtle hints and foreshadowing for even the smallest detail of the movie. it's crafted with such care that you can realize bong's passion for movies and his social awareness in every frame. it's a masterpiece in every sense of the word and (probably) the best movie of the whole century. makes me wanna see it every day.
3193. Yorum: I honestly feel like there's no point discussing or writing anything here for Parasite, because I feel like there's already been countless amounts of people who have reviewed and analysed this film to great lengths. All I have to say is that this film is still almost as great as it was when it started to explode in popularity around this time last year; a major return to form for Bong since his rather lackluster English-language features, and a major turning point for world cinema being recognised by the Oscars and the mainstream. Let's hope it continues to stay that way.
3194. Yorum: deserved every second of that eight minute standing ovation wow. this left me speechless
3195. Yorum: If you are one of the people who didn’t watch this movie because “ew, subtitles” then you ain’t no friend of mine.
3196. Yorum: this shit does not get old. 
3197. Yorum: My local cinema was playing the Black and White version of Parasite so naturally I jumped at the chance to watch this masterpiece again.
3199. Yorum: Second time around and I thought I’d be more prepared but no I just wish my brain was of a bigger capacity because there was just so much more I noticed and wanted to absorb, this was still so much to take in all at once, but in the way that it’s because it’s so bloody phenomenal. Wow. Just wow.
3200. Yorum: The only real problem I had with this film was the romance between Kevin and Da-Hye, since it didn’t really add anything to the plot. Other than that, I can’t think of any reason not to give this a 5. Amazing screenplay, cinematography, and all that, and best of all, extremely unique. I could say so much more about this masterpiece but everything that’s had to be said has been said.
3201. Yorum: I put off watching Parasite for months because of the sheer amount of hype surrounding it. So how is it months after the hype has died down?...yeah it's good, like really good.
3202. Yorum: Everything about this movie is hauntingly beautiful, I genuinely can't name a single fault. I'm just angry I never managed to see it in the cinema.
3203. Yorum: This movie gets better every time you see it! I’ve now seen this 3 times and I notice a new theme or detail every time. I can’t fathom how some people think this won so many awards simply because it’s foreign. I just can’t.
3204. Yorum: the bar is so high right now i need to unwatch this so i can enjoy other movies
3206. Yorum: My boyfriend said it was the best picture of the year. The Oscar's said it was the best picture of the year...
3207. Yorum: I hyped this up too much for my parents so they were expecting some absolutely perfect film by the time they watched it. Good thing that’s exactly what they got.
3208. Yorum: Watched it with the family and they loved it!
3209. Yorum: “If you make a plan, life never works out that way.”
3210. Yorum: watched again with my dad same ol serve same ol fucking serve
3212. Yorum: I SAW IT IN THEATRES! i can die happy now
3213. Yorum: It's so good in every sense, visually, story, acting, just enough reality and fantasy to wonder if this is really where the story is going. I do feel like parts of the story didn't click to me, like I don't need things to be spelled out for me but I wish there were certain parts of the story that were clear. But amazing none the less!! Almost made me cry.
3214. Yorum: "You know what kind of plan never fails? No plan. No plan at all. You know why? Because life cannot be planned".
3216. Yorum: hey guys hit that like button if you think mr. park is... kinda hot
3217. Yorum: Christians go to church on Sunday, but cinephiles go to early afternoon showings of Best Picture Winner Parasite.
3218. Yorum: Finally brought this film into my home - hopefully it doesn't start to ruin my life.
3219. Yorum: What a masterpiece of a film. Totally deserves all of the recognition and acolades.
3220. Yorum: Spoilers for Kim Ki-young's THE HOUSEMAID (1960) coming. Fair warning!
3221. Yorum: and that’s on parasite inventing cinema periodt
3223. Yorum: this winning best picture was a welcome surprise...not to take anything away from the prestigious company it kept, but this deserved to win. i expected it to merely take best foreign film as a consolation prize. nice face turn by the academy 👍👍.
3225. Yorum: my GOD, they made the best decision ever last night.
3226. Yorum: so unspeakably satisfying to watch this again today (in cinema this time) and then immediately watch it receive all the major award recognition it deserved by sweeping the academy awards
3228. Yorum: BEST PICTURE PERIODDDD I KNEW IT !!!!! not sleeping tonight too busy going apeshit
3229. Yorum: LOVE WHEN BEST PICTURE WINS BEST PICTURE
3231. Yorum: Seeing Parasite in theaters again was not only absolutely worth it, but being in a room that was full of people made it all the more better. The fact that people flocked to a foreign film, especially one so twisty and intensely critical of how a lot of our modern world operates, speaks to how much this movie has made people talking, and about how good it is, too, might I add. 
3232. Yorum: review
3233. Yorum: funny how da vinci, picasso, van gogh, & michelangelo have been silent ever since parasite (2019)
3234. Yorum: IFFR
3235. Yorum: Parasite is a South Korean film about a poor family getting themselves entangled with a rich one resulting in a whole slew of situations. Directed by Bong Joon-Ho (my favourite SK director from the movies I've watched so far), it's one of the most enthralling film experiences from 2019.
3236. Yorum: Yes! This is cinema, baby!
3238. Yorum: just woke up in cold sweats knowing i’ll never be jessica, only child, illnois, chicago :(
3239. Yorum: "People who ride the subway have a special smell."
3240. Yorum: Poor people are FUCKED UP
3241. Yorum: absolute brilliance 😭😭👏👏 why did it take me this long to watch this masterpiece? i think because everyone loves it so much i was afraid i wouldn’t but i’m glad that is not the case!!
3242. Yorum: A perfect film from start to finish, one of the best of the decade and certainly the most unique. Bong Joon-Ho's master craft in filmmaking is a mix of thriller and humor through the lens of social satire. Don't be afraid of subtitles folks. (9/10)
3243. Yorum: So much waiting to see this, and yet, I wasn’t ready for it.
3244. Yorum: Hi. Here's my video on my favorite movies of the year.
3245. Yorum: i felt every emotion possible whilst watching this, holy smokes
3246. Yorum: ms peach going from a sex toy in 2017 to a murder weapon in 2019... versatility at its finest
3247. Yorum: Bong Joon-ho said Eat The Rich!
3248. Yorum: “This ‘send’ button is like a missile launcher!” 
3249. Yorum: “Yeah I support rich rights. Rich rights to shut the fuck up“-Bong Joon Ho 2019
3251. Yorum: "wonder if people are going to pick up on the class commentary I'm going for here...."
3252. Yorum: every time i'm watching a movie now it's gonna be like "is it as good as parasite though?" and the answer is always gonna be the same: a flat-out, confident NO
3253. Yorum: Spectacular shape-shifting satire on modern-day capitalism. (Poetic that it should not come from the West). Trespassing isn’t just the film’s delicious central concept: it’s Bong Joon-ho’s defining gift as an artist. Genre rules assume different functions in his films: events that pass for “plot twists” are actually jolts in tone revealing underlying truths.
3254. Yorum: Just keeps getting better. 3rd time seeing it and I’m still blown away.
3255. Yorum: 2019 best picture mark my words
3258. Yorum: In my end of the decade top 100 list, I've chosen to only include one film per director. Some directors will be harder to choose from than others, but Parasite was just so goddamn fantastic that I don't have any doubt that this will be my entry for Bong Joon Ho.
3259. Yorum: rly think trying to outflank this from the left is a fruitless critical play bc its characters‘ worldviews are rigidly defined as types, meaning this is basically a parable - the ending is capitalist realism 101. v schematic in the way a lot of bong’s contemporaries in korean genre film were/are schematic, but the tension still worked on me.
3260. Yorum: the trauma cake... me too
3261. Yorum: A gothic tale updated for modern times. The structure is extremely similar imo. A poor person gets a job at a manor and discovers secrets and horrors. It wouldn't feel out of place to swap out the house for a Castle. The couple in the basement function as doubles for the family, revealing there self-hated and base nature. I went in completely blind and let me tell you, when that plot twist hit, reader, I gasped out loud.
3262. Yorum: Park Dong-ik and Park Yeon-kyo are engaged in sexual activity on their couch. Dong-ik tells Yeon-kyo that if she were to put on the cheap panties they found in their car earlier, he would become more aroused. Hearing this, Yeon-kyo moans, "buy me drugs," as if she were the girl who had left the panties. 
3264. Yorum: I honestly don't know what to say. In the year that I've been using Letterboxd to spout my opinions, this is the most blank I've ever been while trying to write something. I was genuinely physically buzzing during several moments in Bong Joon-ho's tour de force. Parasite is nothing short of witty, nail-biting, immaculately crafted perfection on every level.
3265. Yorum: A clever, well thought out film.
3266. Yorum: I can't get enough of it. I watched it second time and it is even better than first time and first time was like amazing amazing.
3267. Yorum: SYNOPSIS: Parasite’s brilliant premise, subversive themes, and excellent directing make it one of the most unique and original movies you could hope to see in a theater today, even if that premise starts to wear thin in the endgame. 8.5/10
3269. Yorum: Just watched it again, in a theater this time, and it somehow was even better upon rewatch. Absolute perfection in every aspect. I can't get this outta my head.
3270. Yorum: You know how every Bong Joon-ho film has at least one setpiece that blows your mind? Okja had the escape, The Host has...an escape, Snowpiercer has the riot, etc. This movie is like a feature length version of those. 
3271. Yorum: I guess this is Hooptober-adjacent, but I chose not to count it towards my final tally. Also, I've already hit all the requirements this would fill.
3272. Yorum: lifting the wealth rock in toast to bong joon-ho: RESPECT!
3273. Yorum: There's no better feeling than seeing a good movie.
3274. Yorum: Go see this movie with absolutely as little knowledge as possible. I'm not trying to hide some big twist like it turns out they're all in the future or some bullshit, but the plot unfolds so beautifully that even finding out how the characters reach the second act is a joy.
3275. Yorum: In Parasite, an act of (selfishly-motivated) good will spirals out of control in whiplash-inducing fashion. This pitch-black tragicomic domestic drama/caper flick/thriller/allegory unfurls with awesome confidence; literally, in that the pacing, plotting, direction inspire awe for the cinematic prowess on display.
3277. Yorum: somehow gets even better on a second viewing ok
3280. Yorum: Parasite is so amazing that I never watched another film again for more than a month, because nothing would be as good or even come close to it's brilliance.
3282. Yorum: I’m almost angry at how good this is. Bong Joon-ho is no stranger to exploring class disparity, but it’s handled here with grace and beauty as the film floats between dark comedy and quiet tragedy. It’s a film that doesn’t necessarily try to defend its con artist characters, but also acknowledges that perhaps kindness and courtesy are luxuries for those who can afford them.
3283. Yorum: I went into this knowing basically nothing about the premise, and I was absolutely blown away. Bong Joon-Ho has crafted an extremely unique genre-bending experience that is full of energy and has a lot on its mind. Definitely among the best of the year and I wouldn't be opposed to Bong scoring a director nom for this.
3284. Yorum: Revered among critics and audiences alike, PARASITE easily became one of my most anticipated films of the year, leaving Cannes with the famed and honoured Palme D’Or, the highest prize awarded at the festival.
3285. Yorum: Went for a second helping of Bong Joon-ho's Parasite at the Karlovy Vary Film Festival - just couldn't help it. I love this film so much!! It's a remarkable work of cinema that will live on (forever) and be discussed for so long. It's just perfect in every possible way, and the audience is always so into it. And that means it has universal appeal, despite being very specifically Korean, it's a timeless masterpiece that any and every viewer will appreciate.
3286. Yorum: Parasite somehow managed to keep the narrative’s momentum stronger and stronger throughout the film—it is truly a masterful social commentary about class where all its elements work So Damn Well together creating a piece of art that left me on edge and speechless after the screening. It’s funny, it’s heartbreaking, it’s scary, it’s tense, it’s bleak, and it’s also wild as fuck. The moment when I figured out why it’s titled Parasite and everything just clicked... Almost matched Archimedes’ Eureka moment.
3288. Yorum: One of my all time favourites, the first foreign film I ever watched and also the first film that really made me fall in love with not just cinema but art in general. I've lost my movie mojo recently (only seen like 4 films this month) so I thought I'd rewatch most of my old 5 stars to see how they hold up and bring back some passion for watching them
3290. Yorum: Enigmatic of the recent trend and the point oscar shills wont shut up about: that the oscars are finally diversifying to support international film on a larger scale, but recent larger film consciousness to brush up with the international arthouse reads so functional and without reflection of intellectual introspection towards (any) international films themes at play, the guise of political awareness only draped over by the bastions of public opinion trendsetters when its function serves only the complacency of the working class to settle down and recognize their place, revolutionary cinema still given the air of othering, meanwhile the facade of confrontation emphasized here is supported tenfold, your anger against the rich is nothing more than dramatic intrigue to dilute into the quest for capital, like Bong building a fire but still inviting the investors a seat on the logs to let them know the function of political cinema will now be the definitionary didactic dialogue of concepts without the specificity of rage that would make any of this worthwhile, after all we are the parasites,,, like going to a museum and seeing the definition of capitalism framed in gold, an apolitical dish of struggle that can only end in the dilution of rage born from that struggle to just sit tight until you can watch a sunrise with someone you love, what would that mean for life, idk, but it looks pretty. Shot like shit to. Made me remember the time we were sharing what media/art/whathaveyou, we were inspired by in communications art class and i said i was really enjoying japanese ghost dramas (i was binging k. kurosawa), and someone interrupted and screamed “oh dude like parasite!!!”
3291. Yorum: SOMETIME ONE PARASITE CAN BECOME A BIG PROBLEM
3292. Yorum: Actually an impossible movie to review. It’s too good to say reduce to a funny one-liner review but also too good for me to be able to explain using my clearly limited vocabulary. Just the sort of movie that needs to be seen to be believed, and then seen again, and again and again.
3293. Yorum: How the hell could someone not love this film? This film is perfect in every way possible
3294. Yorum: It’s still a freakin’ masterpiece
3295. Yorum: Parasite (2019), enough said.
3297. Yorum: Why has no one ever talked about this flick?
3298. Yorum: My expectations were really high going into this and wasn’t disappointed omg. It started off slow but it didn’t really feel like it dragged and there were some comedic bits that kept it entertaining. Performances were amazing, script was incredible. That bit on the couch was so weird to watch with my mom next to me.
3299. Yorum: Every time I see it I like it more than the previous one. I wish I could rank it with more than five stars.
3301. Yorum: Third viewing, again in a cinema, still one of my favorite films of the last decade. I'm absolutely amazed that six months after the beginning of its initial theatrical run, it's still available in theatres. Haven't been to such a packed cinema screening in a long time, probably since the last Star Wars film.
3303. Yorum: First half of the movie: Bong Joon Woah!
3304. Yorum: Even though this is my 2nd favorite movie of last year behind The Irishman, it’s the most well-deserved Best Picture winner since Moonlight.
3305. Yorum: Finally got into the right mindset to watch this (due in no small part to a certain someone sharing his hilariously uninformed opinion of Parasite's Best Picture win.) It's safe to say that after seeing this last night and having it occupy most of my thoughts since then that this was the perfect film to celebrate turning 20 with.
3306. Yorum: Maybe the most unapologetic genre film Oscar® sweep since Silence of the Lambs? Remove Parasite's subtitles, and you have a slick pop thriller made with enough reversals and setups and payoffs to make even the most clueless Hollyweird suit white knuckle a theater seat. Anyone saying this is an art film or difficult probably just hates reading. And the additional commentary about the working class fighting themselves instead of the real rich enemy still packs a punch. If he lived in America, the "respect" guy would probably be licking Bloomberg's boots. Weird how people seem to worship wealth in any country.
3307. Yorum: “what a crazy family!” -my mom
3308. Yorum: So that's where that missing half a star was.
3309. Yorum: my mom & i every two seconds: 
3310. Yorum: Move over Memories of Murder, the greatest film of Bong Joon Ho's career has just fumigated its way into my life and now I am cleansed of all my sins.
3312. Yorum: Arriving on a wave of hype since its Palme d’Or win in May, Bong Joon-ho’s Parasite is every bit as mesmerizing as the buzz surrounding it suggests. With a razor-sharp script and excellent contributions from all players involved on both sides of the camera, it sunk its hooks into me within the opening minutes and never let go. Bong aims for many thematic and aesthetic targets over the course of the film, and he hits virtually every one with stunning precision. As a satire on social climbing and the aloofness of the upper class, it’s dead-on and has parallels to the American Dream that American viewers are unlikely to miss; as a dark comedy, it’s often laugh-aloud hilarious in its audacity; as a thriller, it has brilliantly-executed moments of tension and surprises that genuinely caught me off-guard; and as a drama about family dynamics, it has tender moments that stand out all the more because of how they’re juxtaposed with so much cynicism elsewhere in the film. Handling so many different tones is an immensely difficult balancing act, yet Bong handles all of it so skillfully that he makes it feel effortless. Though I often had the sense that something horrible was just seconds away from happening, the film plays its twists and turns close to the vest and I found myself surprised and startled by numerous developments. The acting is superb across the board, particularly from Song Kang-ho as the deceptive family’s patriarch and Cho Yeo-jeong as the naïve mother of the wealthy family. Song is convincing as an embattled opportunist who seems like he’s just one push away from cracking, and Cho’s obliviousness to the Kim family’s grifting and the ways in which her privilege have sealed her off from the real world often make for effective humor. Taken as a whole, Parasite covers so much ground and leaves viewers with so much to unpack that it’s tough not to get swept up in it as it runs and continue to ponder its messages and implications after it ends. It’s an experience unlike any other I’ve had at a movie this year.
3313. Yorum: I was so worried that I would be the one person I knew who hated this film, but no, it was totally really good! *Phew*
3314. Yorum: Can you forgive the last twenty percent of a film that absolutely kills it for the first eighty percent? That's the question that “Parasite” poses after starting out as a con caper before turning miraculously into a class warfare horror-thriller. All along the way, there's a palpable electricity in the air, a stirring sense of inventiveness at work. The tension is turned up so high and the conflict at the heart of the movie is so novel that it's almost enough to see the setup without the payoff. Indeed, Bong Joon-Ho could have easily stopped the movie much sooner than he does and walked away a winner. But he doesn't, and as he tries to resolve his impossible puzzle, that incredible nuance and rigor he brought to the first two acts seems to abandon him. So close.
3316. Yorum: perfect from the very first second to the ultimate fade to black. 2 hours of how to do cinema. a masterpiece in every sense of the word. nothing should be this good. i wanna see this movie literally every day. it's really ~that~ good and many more.
3318. Yorum: this movie was fantastic and funny and everything i wanted but the ending absolutely DESTROYED me BECAUSE IT IS A GODDAMN METAPHOR for promising your parents and yourself you will be the one to take care of them in their old age with all the money you’re making from your shiny job and you’ll buy them a nice house and you will all be together always and live under the same roof forever BUT in reality you’re not making jack shit at your job and you’ll never be able to buy a house or financially take care of them in this economy.... i mean you can’t even give them a call or a text more than once a week???? it’s all a pipe dream and now your sister is dead and it’s your fault your dad will live in the basement forever
3319. Yorum: I don’t even know what to say I’m so— the last 15 mins made me feel like I was on crack. the way my mouth fell open at the ending I had to pause to collect my thoughts. this shit was in different areas!!! 
3320. Yorum: Surprisingly my local cinema offers screenings of the film of the year, Parasite. So of course I felt the urge to watch this masterpiece again, this time on the big screen. My main two take-aways: Watching Parasite on the big screen makes an already perfect film even better. And the german dub is alright, I guess.
3321. Yorum: Bong continues making films that are completely unclassifiable in genre. Riotously funny, sad, tense, and clever all at once. Few directors are as adept as Bong at filling their films with heavy, urgent themes while still letting the films be fun as hell. I can't wait to watch this one over and over.
3322. Yorum: The tension of Parasite literally had me forgetting to breathe in parts, this is the most immersive film experience I've had in 2019.
3323. Yorum: I applaud Bong for his work here, which is certainly best picture-worthy. Once again, he practises his favourite exercise of juggling multiple genres and it comes to fruition moderately well. You'd as well give him his own genre, as by now defining his body of work generally amounts to "crime-drama thriller with a hint of dark comedy and possibly action - sci-fi too if the film's in English". His return to his home country is a prolific one, with what might be the effort with the most control over its tonal shifts and genre parameters. Fundamentally, it's a well-made crowdpleaser that impresses on its clever deviations from most mainstream cinema and thrill-value. Act 2's twist is one of the better ones in recent memory and is the moment the film transitions into darker territory. If I must nitpick, the morse code nonsense is tough to swallow and the third act completely falls apart/goes all over the place. Still, I was entertained, and that's better than what 90% of new releases accomplish.
3324. Yorum: can’t remember the last time a movie made me feel every emotion under the sun. parasite for best picture — not best foreign picture — period.
3325. Yorum: I don't want it to sound too bombastic but movies like this are exactly the reason why I love cinema. The premise is highly unique and I love the social commentary sewed tightly with the hilarious lines and dramatic moments. The end absolutely devastated me and I sobbed for 5 minutes and am still feeling down. Flawless film.
